
===== PDF PAGE 1 =====


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====
IN PRAISE OF GARY WEBB'S 
DARK
ALLIANCE
:
"Today, it is hard to say how Webb will be remembered by
history. But if there is any justice, he will be remembered
favorably. His book demonstrates that the original expose
was on the right track. Rather than going too far by
implicating U.S. government officials in illegal activities, it
seems to me the newspaper series did not go far enough.
Based on the evidence in Webb's book, news
organizations—especially the 
Washington Post, New York
Times
, and 
Los Angeles Times—
should re-examine their
knockdown stories. They owe such a re-examination not
only to Webb, but also to their readers."
—Steve Weinberg in the 
Baltimore Sun
 (June 14, 1998)
"Two years ago Gary Webb touched off a national
controversy with his news stories linking the CIA and the
Nicaraguan Contras to the rise of the crack epidemic in
Los Angeles and elsewhere. His gripping new book, richly
researched and documented, deserves an even wider
audience and discussion."
—Peter Dale Scott in the 
San Francisco Chronicle
 (June
28, 1998)
"Webb reminds us that the Reagan approved contra
program attracted lowlifes and thugs the way manure draws
flies. He guides the reader through a nether world of dope-
dealers, gunrunners, and freelance security consultants,
which on occasion overlapped with the U.S. government.
He entertainingly details the honor, dishonor, and deals
among thieves. . .All in all, it's a disgraceful picture—one

===== PDF PAGE 3 =====
among thieves. . .All in all, it's a disgraceful picture—one
that should permanently taint the happy-face hues of the
Reagan years."
—David Corn in the 
Washington Post
 (August 9, 1998)
"Webb [is] a highly regarded investigative reporter. . .. 
Dark
Alliance
 is his effort to tell his side of the story and set the
record straight."
—James Adams in the 
New York Times Book Review
(September 27, 1998)
"An excellent new book. . ."
—Norman Solomon in the 
San Francisco Bay Guardian
(July 22, 1998)
"The Central Intelligence Agency continued to work with
about two dozen Nicaraguan rebels and their supporters
during the 1980s despite allegations that they were
trafficking in drugs, according to a classified study by the
C.I.A. The new study has found that the agency's decision
to keep those paid agents, or to continue dealing with them
in some less formal relationship, was made by top officials
at headquarters in Langley, Virginia, in the midst of the war
waged by the CIA-backed contras against Nicaragua's
leftist Sandinista Government."
—James Risen, page one of the 
New York Times
 (July 17,
1998)
"Two years ago, Gary Webb wrote a series of articles that
said some bad things about the CIA and drug traffickers.
The CIA denied the charges, and every major newspaper in
the country took the agency's word for it. Gary Webb was
ruined. Which is a shame, because he was right."
—Charles Bowden in 
Esquire
 (September 1998)

===== PDF PAGE 4 =====
"A standing room only crowd of several hundred people
jammed a meeting hall in mid-town Manhattan on Thursday
night to hear the details of a news story that refuses to die. .
."
—Juan Gonzalez in the 
New York Daily News
 (June 16,
1998)
"[It is an] issue that feels like a dagger in the heart of
African Americans. . .. Even if the CIA's motive proves less
malevolent, any evidence that it supported drug trafficking
would indeed be the crime of the century."
—Barbara Reynolds in 
USA Today
 (February 26, 1997)
"After thousands of hours of work by investigative reporters
at several newspapers—almost all of them predisposed to
proving that Gary Webb was wrong—none has succeeded
in doing so."
—Jill Stewart in 
New Times Los Angeles
 (June 5, 1997)
"Gary Webb brought back before the American public one
of the darkest secrets of the 1980s—the cocaine
smuggling by the Nicaraguan contra forces—and paid for
this service with his job."
—Robert Parry, winner of the George Polk Award for
National Reporting
"This story challenges the moral authority of our
government."
—Rev. Jesse L. Jackson
"Absolute garbage."
—Lt. Col. Oliver North

===== PDF PAGE 5 =====
"No story in recent memory had generated the intense
controversy or exposed cultural-political fault lines the way
the 
San Jose Mercury News
' 'Dark Alliance' series has. If
you judge journalism by its ability to stir up the pot, then this
series—with its explosive suggestion of CIA complicity in
the crack cocaine epidemic that paralyzed black
neighborhoods in Los Angeles and subsidized the Contra
war in Nicaragua in the '80s—deserves some kind of an
award."
—Mark Jurkowitz, ombudsman, the 
Boston Globe
(November 13, 1996)
"It may be the most significant news story you've never
heard."
—Michael Paul Williams in the 
Richmond Times-Dispatch
(September 16, 1996)
"A copiously researched tale of how two Nicaraguan drug
dealers with connections to the CIA-backed contra army
moved tons of drugs into Los Angeles."
—Newsweek
 (November 11, 1996)
"The hottest topic in black America."
—Jack E. White in 
Time
 (September 30, 1996)

===== PDF PAGE 6 =====
DARK ALLIANCE
The CIA, the CONTRAS, and the CRACK
COCAINE EXPLOSION

===== PDF PAGE 7 =====
GARY WEBB
SEVEN STORIES PRESS
New York

===== PDF PAGE 8 =====
Copyright © 1998, 1999 by Gary Webb
Foreword © 1998 by Maxine Waters
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be
reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in
any form or by any means, including mechanical, electric,
photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior
written permission of the publisher.
Seven Stories Press
140 Watts Street
New York, NY 10013
www.sevenstories.com
In Canada: Publishers Group Canada, 559 College Street,
Suite 402, Toronto, ON M6G 1A9
In the UK: Turnaround Publisher Services Ltd., Unit 3,
Olympia Trading Estate, Coburg Road, Wood Green,
London N22 6TZ
In Australia: Palgrave Macmillan, 15–19 Claremont Street,
South Yarra, VIC 3141
College professors may order examination copies of
Seven Stories Press titles for a free six-month trial period.
To order, visit www.sevenstories.com/textbook or send a
fax on school letterhead to (212) 226-1411.
Webb, Gary.
Dark alliance: the CIA, the contras, and the crack cocaine
explosion / Gary Webb.
p. cm.

===== PDF PAGE 9 =====
ISBN: 978-1-888363-93-7
1. Crack (Drug)—California—Los Angeles. 2. Cocaine
habit—California—Los Angeles. 3. Counterrevolutionaries
—Nicaragua. 4. United States. Central Intelligence Agency.
I. Title
HV5833.L67W43 1998
363.45'09794—
dc21
97-
52612
CIP

===== PDF PAGE 10 =====
TO SUE, WITH LOVE AND THANKS

===== PDF PAGE 11 =====
Contents
Foreword Congresswoman Maxine Waters
Acknowledgments
Author's Note
PART ONE
PROLOGUE
1
 
"A Pretty secret kind of thing"
2
 
"We were the first"
3
 
"The brotherhood of military minds"
4
 
"I never sent cash"
5
 
"God, Fatherland and Freedom"
6
 
"They were doing their patriotic duty"
7
 
"Something happened to Ivan"
8
 
"A million hits is not enough"
9
 
"He would have had me by the tail"
10
 
"Teach a man a craft and he's liable to practice

===== PDF PAGE 12 =====
it"
11
 
"They were looking in the other direction"
12
 
"This guy talks to God"
13
 
"The wrong kind of friends"
14
 
"It's bigger than I can handle"
15
 
"This thing is a tidal wave"
16
 
"It's a burn"
17
 
"We're going to blow your fucking head off"
18
 
"We bust our ass and the government's
involved"
19
 
"He reports to people reporting to Bush"
20
 
"It is a sensitive matter"
21
 
"I could go anywhere in the world and sell
dope"
22
 
"They can't touch us"
23
 
"He had the backing of a superpower"
24
 
"They're gonna forget I was a drug dealer"

===== PDF PAGE 13 =====
PART TWO
25
 
"Things are moving all arounds us"
26
 
"That matter, if true, would be classified"
27
 
"A very difficult decision"
EPILOGUE
NOTES ON SOURCES
CAST OF CHARACTERS
GLOSSARY OF ORGANIZATIONS AND
LOCATIONS

===== PDF PAGE 14 =====
Foreword
BY CONGRESSWOMAN MAXINE
WATERS
T
he night that I read the "Dark Alliance" series, I was so
alarmed, that I literally sat straight up in bed, poring over
every word. I reflected on the many meetings I attended
throughout South Central Los Angeles during the 1980s,
when I constantly asked, "Where are all the drugs coming
from?" I asked myself that night whether it was possible for
such a vast amount of drugs to be smuggled into any
district under the noses of the community leaders, police,
sheriff's department, FBI, DEA and other law enforcement
agencies.
I decided to investigate the allegations. I met with Ricky
Ross, Alan Fenster, Mike Ruppert, Celerino Castillo, Jerry
Guzetta, and visited the L.A. Sheriff's Department. My
investigation took me to Nicaragua where I interviewed
Enrique Miranda Jaime in prison, and I met with the head of
Sandinista intelligence Tomas Borge. I had the opportunity
to question Contra leaders Adolfo Calero and Eden
Pastora in a Senate investigative hearing, which was
meant to be perfunctory, until I arrived to ask questions
based on the vast knowledge I had gathered in my
investigation. I forced Calero to admit he had a relationship
with the CIA through the United States Embassy, where he
directed USAID funds to community groups and
organizations.
The time I spent investigating the allegations of the "Dark
Alliance" series led me to the undeniable conclusion that
the CIA, DEA, DIA, and FBI knew about drug trafficking in

===== PDF PAGE 15 =====
the CIA, DEA, DIA, and FBI knew about drug trafficking in
South Central Los Angeles. They were either part of the
trafficking or turned a blind eye to it, in an effort to fund the
Contra war. I am convinced that drug money played an
important role in the Contra war and that drug money was
used by both sides.
The saddest part of these revelations is the wrecked
lives and lost possibilities of so many people who got
caught up in selling drugs, went to prison, ended up
addicted, dead, or walking zombies from drugs.
It may take time, but I am convinced that history is going
to record that Gary Webb wrote the truth. The establishment
refused to give Gary Webb the credit that he deserved.
They teamed up in an effort to destroy the story—and very
nearly succeeded.
There are a few of us who congratulate Gary for his
honesty and courage. We will not let this story end until the
naysayers and opponents are forced to apologize for their
reckless and irresponsible attacks on Gary Webb.
The editors of the 
San Jose Mercury News
 did not have
the strength to withstand the attacks, so they abandoned
Gary Webb, despite their knowledge that Gary was working
on further documentation to substantiate the allegations of
the series.
This book completely and absolutely confirms Gary
Webb's devastating series. This book is the final chapter
on this sordid tale and brings to light one of the worst
official abuses in our nation's history. We all owe Gary
Webb a debt of gratitude for his brave work.

===== PDF PAGE 16 =====
Acknowledgments
I
 am forever indebted to my friend and colleague Georg
Hodel, who helped me chase this epic through Central
America at immeasurable risk to both himself and his
family in Nicaragua. His persistence, his wisdom, and his
courage were a constant inspiration, and a melancholy
reminder of just how far from the path of righteousness
corporate American journalism has wandered.
Another journalist to whom I owe a special debt is Nick
Schou of 
O.C. Weekly
, who put the 
L.A. Times
 to shame
with his reporting, and was very generous with his time and
his discoveries. Pam Kramer of the 
San Jose Mercury
News
 Los Angeles bureau was a joy to work with as well,
being smarter (and braver) than almost every other reporter
I know.
In the 1980s and early '90s, a number of journalists
began unearthing parts of this skeleton bone by bone. My
investigative predecessors are also owed thanks, not only
for their thoughts and in some cases their files, but for their
courageous work in helping to bring this story to light: Tony
Avirgan, Brian Barger, Dennis Bernstein, Alexander
Cockburn, Leslie Cockburn, Sally Denton, Brian Donovan,
Guillermo Fernandez, Martha Honey, Peter Kornbluh,
Jonathan Kwitny, Jonathan Marshall, John McPhaul,
Jefferson Morley, Roger Morris, Micah Morrison, Robert
Parry, Seth Rosenfeld, Peter Dale Scott, Josiah
Thompson, Douglas Vaughan, and David Umhoefer.
Patriots all.
Thanks much to David Paynter and Elizabeth Lockwood
of the National Archives in College Park, Maryland, who
unfailingly answered my Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)

===== PDF PAGE 17 =====
requests within ten days and patiently searched the Walsh
databases for needles in haystacks. I am also grateful to
the many cheerful librarians at the California State Library's
Government Publications Section in Sacramento,
particularly senior librarian Deborah Weber, who taught me
the wonders of the FBIS microfiche.
John Mattes, Jack Blum, and Jon Winer of the Kerry
Committee staff were extraordinarily helpful, and one day, I
am sure, they will be hailed for the remarkable service they
rendered to the American public under very trying
circumstances.
The efforts of my agent, Flip Brophy, are much
appreciated, though I'm sure her self-esteem will never
recover from the torrent of rejections. I am also beholden to
my fearless publisher, Dan Simon, and the folks at Seven
Stories Press for their faith and patience.
Finally, I would never have been able to write this book
and survive these past few years without the love, support,
and understanding of my wife, Sue, and our children, Ian,
Eric, and Christine. You're the best.
—G.W.
Sacramento, March 1998

===== PDF PAGE 18 =====
Author's Note
T
his, sadly, is a true story. It is based upon a controversial
series I wrote for the 
San Jose Mercury News
 in the
summer of 1996 about the origins of the crack plague in
South Central Los Angeles.
Unlike other books that purport to tell the inside story of
America's most futile war (
Kings of Cocaine
 by Guy
Gugliotta and Jeff Leen and 
Desperados
 by Elaine
Shannon spring to mind), 
Dark Alliance
 was not written
with the assistance, cooperation, or encouragement of the
U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration or any federal law
enforcement agency.
In fact, the opposite is true. Every Freedom of Information
Act request I filed was rejected on national security or
privacy grounds, was ignored, or was responded to with
documents so heavily censored they must have been the
source of much hilarity down at the FOIA offices. The sole
exception was the National Archives and Records
Administration.
Dark Alliance
 does not propound a conspiracy theory;
there is nothing theoretical about history. In this case, it is
undeniable that a wildly successful conspiracy to import
cocaine existed for many years, and that innumerable
American citizens—most of them poor and black—paid an
enormous price as a result.
This book was written for them, so that they may know
upon what altars their communities were sacrificed.
—G.W.

===== PDF PAGE 19 =====
Every government is run by
liars and
nothing they say should be
believed.
—I. F. STONE, 1907 – 1989

===== PDF PAGE 20 =====
PART ONE

===== PDF PAGE 21 =====
PROLOGUE
"It was like they didn't want to know"
W
hen I came to work in the sprawling newsroom of the
Cleveland Plain Dealer
 in the early 1980s, I was assigned
to share a computer terminal with a tall middle-aged
reporter with a long, virtually unpronounceable Polish name.
To save time, people called him Tom A.
To me, arriving from a small daily in Kentucky, Tom A.
was the epitome of the hard-boiled big-city newspaperman.
The city officials he wrote about and the editors who
mangled his copy were "fuckinjerks." A question prompting
an affirmative response would elicit "fuckin-a-tweetie"
instead of "yes." And when his phone rang he would say,
"It's the Big One," before picking up the receiver.
No matter how many times I heard that, I always laughed.
The Big One was the reporter's holy grail—the tip that led
you from the daily morass of press conferences and cop
calls on to the trail of The Biggest Story You'd Ever Write,
the one that would turn the rest of your career into an
anticlimax. I never knew if it was cynicism or optimism that
made him say it, but deep inside, I thought he was jinxing
himself.
The Big One, I believed, would be like a bullet with your
name on it. You'd never hear it coming. And almost a
decade later, long after Tom A., the 
Plain Dealer
, and I had
parted company, that's precisely how it happened. I didn't
even take the call.
It manifested itself as a pink While You Were Out
message slip left on my desk in July 1995.
There was no message, just a woman's name and a

===== PDF PAGE 22 =====
phone number, somewhere in the East Bay.
I called, but there was no answer, so I put the message
aside. If I have time, I told myself, I'll try again later.
Several days later an identical message slip appeared.
Its twin was still sitting on a pile of papers at the edge of my
desk.
This time the woman was home.
"I saw the story you did a couple weeks ago," she began.
"The one about the drug seizure laws. I thought you did a
good job."
"Thanks a lot," I said, and I meant it. She was the first
reader who'd called about that story, a front-page piece in
the 
San Jose Mercury News
 about a convicted cocaine
trafficker who, without any formal legal training, had beaten
the U.S. Justice Department in court three straight times
and was on the verge of flushing the government's
multibillion-dollar asset forfeiture program right down the
toilet. The inmate, a lifer, had argued that losing your
property 
and
 going to jail was like being punished twice for
the same crime—double jeopardy—and seventeen judges
from the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals agreed with him.
(Faced with the prospect of setting thousands of dopers
free or returning billions in seized property, the U.S.
Supreme Court would later overturn two of its own rulings in
order to kill off the inmate's suit.)
"You didn't just give the government's side of it," she
continued. "The other stories I read about the case were
like, 'Omigod, they're going to let drug dealers out of jail.
Isn't this terrible?'"
I asked what I could do for her.
"My boyfriend is in a situation like that," she said, "and I
thought it might make a good follow-up story for you. What
the government has done to him is unbelievable."

===== PDF PAGE 23 =====
"Your boyfriend?"
"He's in prison right now on cocaine trafficking charges.
He's been in jail for three years."
"How much more time has he got?"
"Well, that's just it," she said. "He's never been brought to
trial. He's done three years already, and he's never been
convicted of anything."
"He must have waived his speedy trial rights," I said.
"No, none of them have," she said. "There are about five
or six guys who were indicted with him, and most of them
are still waiting to be tried, too. They want to go to trial
because they think it's a bullshit case. Rafael keeps writing
letters to the judge and the prosecutor, saying, you know, try
me or let me go."
"Rafael's your boyfriend?"
"Yes. Rafael Cornejo."
"He's Colombian?"
"No, Nicaraguan. But he's lived in the Bay Area since he
was like two or something."
It's interesting, I thought, but not the kind of story likely to
excite my editors. Some drug dealers don't like being in
jail? Oh.
"What's the connection to the forfeiture story?" I asked.
Rafael, she explained, had been a very successful
"businessman," and the government, under the asset
forfeiture program, had seized and sold his automobiles,
his houses, and his businesses, emptied his bank
accounts, and left him without enough money to hire a
lawyer. He had a court-appointed lawyer, she said, who
was getting paid by the hour and didn't seem to care how
long the case took.
"Rafael had the most gorgeous house out in Lafayette,
and the government sold it for next to nothing. Now what

===== PDF PAGE 24 =====
happens if he's acquitted? He spends three or four years in
jail for a crime he didn't commit, and when he gets out,
someone else is living in his house. I mean, what kind of a
country is this? I think it would make a good story."
It might, I told her, if I hadn't done it half a dozen times
already. Two years earlier, I'd written a series for the
Mercury
 called "The Forfeiture Racket," about the police in
California busting into private homes and taking furniture,
televisions, Nintendo games, belt buckles, welfare checks,
snow tires, and loose change under the guise of cracking
down on drug traffickers. Many times they'd never file
charges, or the charges would be dropped once the victims
signed over the loot.
The series created such an outcry that the California
legislature had abolished the forfeiture program a few
weeks later. But I knew what I would hear if I pitched the
woman's story to my editors: We've done that already. And
that was what I told her.
She was not dissuaded.
"There's something about Rafael's case that I don't think
you would have ever done before," she persisted. "One of
the government's witnesses is a guy who used to work with
the CIA selling drugs. Tons of it."
"What now?" I wasn't sure I'd heard correctly.
"The CIA. He used to work for them or something. He's a
Nicaraguan too. Rafael knows him, he can tell you. He told
me the guy had admitted bringing four tons of cocaine into
the country. Four tons! And if that's what he's admitted to,
you can imagine how much it really was. And now he's back
working for the government again."
I put down my pen. She'd sounded so rational. Where did
this CIA stuff come from? In seventeen years of
investigative reporting, I had ended up doubting the

===== PDF PAGE 25 =====
credibility of every person who ever called me with a tip
about the CIA.
I flashed on Eddie Johnson, a conspiracy theorist who
would come bopping into the 
Kentucky Post
's newsroom
every so often with amazing tales of intrigue and corruption.
Interviewing Eddie was one of the rites of passage at the
Post
. Someone would invariably send him over to the
newest reporter on the staff to see how long it took the
rookie to figure out he was spinning his wheels.
Suddenly I remembered who I was talking to—a cocaine
dealer's moll.
That explained it.
"Oh, the CIA. Well, you're right. I've never done any
stories about the CIA. I don't run across them too often here
in Sacramento. See, I mostly cover 
state
 government—"
"You probably think I'm crazy, right?"
"No, no," I assured her. "You know, could be true, who's
to say? When it comes to the CIA, stranger things have
happened."
There was a short silence, and I could hear her exhale
sharply.
"How dare you treat me like I'm an idiot," she said evenly.
"You don't even know me. I work for a law firm. I've copied
every single piece of paper that's been filed in Rafael's
case and I can document everything I'm telling you. You can
ask Rafael, and he can tell you himself. What's so hard
about coming over and at least taking a look at this stuff?"
"That's a fair question," I allowed. Now, what was my
answer? Because I lied and I do think you're crazy? Or
because I'm too lazy to get up and chase a story that
appears to have a one-in-a-thousand chance of being true?
"You say you can document this?"
"Absolutely. I have all the files here at home. You're

===== PDF PAGE 26 =====
welcome to look at all of it if you want. And Rafael can tell
you—" In the background a child began yowling. "Just a
minute, will you? That's my daughter. She just fell down."
The phone thunked on the other end, and I heard
footsteps retreating into the distance.
Well, that's a promising sign, I thought. Were she a raving
dope fiend, they wouldn't let her raise an infant. She came
back on, bouncing the sobbing toddler. I asked her where
she lived.
"Oakland. But Rafael's got a court date in San Francisco
coming up in a couple weeks. Why don't I meet you at the
courthouse? That way you can sit in on the hearing, and if
you're interested we could get lunch or something and talk."
That cinched it. Now the worst that could happen was
lunch in San Francisco in mid-July, away from the phones
and the editors. And, who knows, there was an off chance
she was telling the truth.
"Okay, fine," I said. "But bring some of those records with
you, okay? I can look through them while I'm sitting there in
court."
She laughed. "You don't trust me, do you? You probably
get a lot of calls like this."
"Not many like this," I said.
Flipping on my computer, I logged into the Dialog
database, which contains full-text electronic versions of
millions of newspaper and magazine stories, property
records, legal filings, you name it. If you've ever been
written about or done something significant in court,
chances are Dialog will find you.
Okay. Let's see if Rafael Cornejo even exists.
A message flashed on the screen: "Your search has
retrieved 11 documents. Display?" So far so good.
I called up the most recent one, a newspaper story that

===== PDF PAGE 27 =====
had appeared a year before in the 
San Francisco
Chronicle
. My eyes widened.
"4 Indicted in Prison Breakout Plot—Pleasanton Inmates
Planned to Leave in Copter, Prosecutors Say."
I quickly scanned the story. Son of a bitch.
Four inmates were indicted yesterday in
connection with a bold plan to escape from the
federal lockup in Pleasanton using plastic
explosives and a helicopter that would have taken
them to a cargo ship at sea. The group also
considered killing a guard if their keepers tried to
thwart the escape, prosecutors contend.
Rafael Cornejo, 39, of Lafayette, an alleged
cocaine kingpin with reputed ties to Nicaraguan
drug traffickers and Panamanian money
launderers, was among those indicted for
conspiracy to escape.
The story called Cornejo "a longtime drug dealer who was
convicted in 1977 of cocaine trafficking in Panama. He
also has served time in a U.S. prison for tax evasion. He
owns several homes and commercial properties in the Bay
Area."
This sure sounds like the same guy, I thought. I scrolled
down to the next hit, a 
San Francisco Examiner
 story.
The four men were charged with planning to use
C-4 plastic explosives to blow out a prison
window and with making a 9-inch "shank" that
could be used to cut a guard's "guts out" if he tried
to block their run to the prison yard. Once in the
yard, they allegedly would be picked up by a
helicopter and flown to a Panamanian cargo ship

===== PDF PAGE 28 =====
in the Pacific, federal officials said.
The remaining stories described Cornejo's arrest and
indictment in 1992, the result of an eighteen-month FBI
investigation. Suspected drug kingpin. Head of a large
cocaine distribution ring on the West Coast. Allegedly
involved in a major cocaine pipeline that ran from Cali,
Colombia, to several West Coast cities. Importing millions
of dollars worth of cocaine via San Diego and Los Angeles
to the Bay Area.
That's some boyfriend she's got there, I mused. The
newspaper stories make him sound like Al Capone. And
he wants to sit down and have a chat? That'll be the day.
When I pushed open the doors to the vast courtroom in the
San Francisco federal courthouse a few weeks later, I
found a scene from 
Miami Vice
.
To my left, a dark-suited army of federal agents and
prosecutors huddled around a long, polished wooden table,
looking grim and talking in low voices. On the right, an array
of long-haired, expensively attired defense attorneys were
whispering to a group of long-haired, angry-looking
Hispanics—their clients. The judge had not yet arrived.
I had no idea what my tipster looked like, so I scanned
the faces in the courtroom, trying to pick out a woman who
could be a drug kingpin's girlfriend. She found me first.
"You must be Gary," said a voice behind me.
I turned, and for an instant all I saw was cleavage and
jewelry. She looked to be in her mid-twenties. Dark hair.
Bright red lipstick. Long legs. Short skirt. Dressed to
accentuate her positive attributes. I could barely speak.
"You're. . .?"

===== PDF PAGE 29 =====
She tossed her hair and smiled. "Pleased to meet you."
She stuck out a hand with a giant diamond on it, and I
shook it weakly.
We sat down in the row of seats behind the prosecutors'
table, and I glanced at her again. That boyfriend of hers
must be going nuts.
"How did you know it was me?" I asked.
"I was looking for someone who looked like a reporter. I
saw you with a notebook in your back pocket and figured
—"
"That obvious, is it?" I pulled out the notepad and got out
a pen. "Why don't you fill me in on who's who here?"
She pointed out Rafael, a short handsome Latino with a
strong jaw and long, wavy hair parted in the middle. He
swiveled in his chair, looked right at us, and seemed
perturbed. His girlfriend waved, and he whirled back
around without acknowledging her.
"He doesn't look very happy," I observed.
"He doesn't like seeing me with other men."
"Uh, why was he trying to break out of jail?" I asked.
"He wasn't. He was getting ready to make bail, and they
didn't want to let him out, so they trumped up these phony
escape charges. Now, because he's under indictment for
escape, he isn't eligible for bail anymore."
The escape charges were in fact the product of an
unsubstantiated accusation by a fellow inmate, a convicted
swindler. They were later thrown out of court on grounds of
prosecutorial misconduct, and Cornejo's prosecutor,
Assistant U.S. Attorney David Hall, was referred to the
Justice Department for investigation by federal judge
Saundra Brown Armstrong.
(In a 
San Francisco Daily Recorder
 story about the
misconduct charge, it was noted that "it is not the first time

===== PDF PAGE 30 =====
that Hall has been under such scrutiny. While serving with
the Department of Justice in Texas, the Office of
Professional Responsibility reviewed Hall after an
informant accused Hall of approving drug smuggling into
the U.S.. . .. Hall said the office found no merit in the
charge.")
She pointed out Hall, a large blond man with broad
features.
"Who are the rest of those people?" I asked.
"The two men standing over there are the FBI agents on
the case. The woman is Hall's boss, Teresa Canepa. She's
the bitch who's got it in for Rafael."
As she was pointing everyone out, the FBI agents
whispered to each other and then tapped Hall on the
shoulder. All three turned and looked at me.
"What's with them?"
"They probably think you're my hit man." She smiled, and
the agents frowned back. "Oh, they just hate me. I called the
cops on them once, you know."
I looked at her. "You called the cops on the FBI."
"Well, they were lurking around outside my house after
dark. They could have been rapists or something. How was
I supposed to know?"
I glanced back over at the federal table and saw that the
entire group had now turned to stare. I was certainly making
a lot of friends.
"Can we go out in the hall and talk for a minute?" I asked
her.
We sat on a bench just outside the door. I told her I
needed to get case numbers so I could ask for the court
files. And, by the way, did she bring those documents she'd
mentioned?
She reached into her briefcase and brought out a stack

===== PDF PAGE 31 =====
an inch thick. "I've got three bankers' boxes full back at
home, and you're welcome to see all of it, but this is the
stuff I was telling you about concerning the witness."
I flipped through the documents. Most of them were
federal law enforcement reports, DEA-6s and FBI 302s,
every page bearing big black letters that said, "
MAY NOT BE
REPRODUCED—PROPERTY OF U.S. GOVERNMENT
." At the bottom of the
stack was a transcript of some sort. I pulled it out.
"Grand Jury for the Northern District of California, Grand
Jury Number 93-5 Grand Jury Inv. No. 9301035. Reporter's
Transcript of Proceedings. Testimony of Oscar Danilo
Blandón. February 3, 1994."
I whistled. "Federal grand jury transcripts? I'm impressed.
Where'd you get these?"
"The government turned them over under discovery.
Dave Hall did. I heard he really got reamed out by the DEA
when they found out about all the stuff he gave us."
I looked through the transcript and saw parts that had
been blacked out.
"Who did this?"
"That's how we got it. Rafael's lawyer is asking for a
clean copy. As you'll see, they also cut out a bunch of stuff
on the DEA-6s. There's a hearing on his motion coming
up."
I skimmed the thirty-nine-page transcript. Whatever else
this Blandón fellow may have been, he was pretty much the
way Cornejo's girlfriend had described him. A big-time
trafficker who'd dealt dope for many years; started out
dealing for the Contras, a right-wing Nicaraguan guerrilla
army, in Los Angeles. He'd used drug money to buy trucks
and supplies. At some point after Ronald Reagan got into
power, the CIA had decided his services as a fund-raiser
were no longer required, and he stayed in the drug

===== PDF PAGE 32 =====
business for himself.
What made the story so compelling was that he was
appearing before the grand jury as a U.S. government
witness. He wasn't under investigation. He wasn't trying to
beat a rap. He was there as a witness for the prosecution,
which meant that the U.S. Justice Department was
vouching for him.
But who was the grand jury investigating? Every time the
testimony led in that direction, words—mostly names—
were blacked out.
"Who is this family they keep asking him about?"
"Rafael says it's Meneses. Norwin Meneses and his
nephews. Have you heard of them?"
"Nope."
"Norwin is one of the biggest traffickers on the West
Coast. When Rafael got arrested, that's who the FBI and
the IRS wanted to talk to him about. Rafael has known
[Norwin and his nephews] for years. Since the Seventies, I
think. The government is apparently using Blandón to get to
Meneses."
Inside, I heard the bailiff calling the court to order, and we
returned to the courtroom. During the hearing, I kept trying
to recall where I had heard about this Contra-cocaine
business before. Had I read it in a book? Seen it on
television? It bothered me. I believed that I had a better-
than-average knowledge of the civil war in Nicaragua,
having religiously followed the Iran-Contra hearings on
television. I would videotape them while I was at work and
watch them late into the night, marvelling the next morning
at how wretchedly the newspapers were covering the story.
Like most Americans, I knew the Contras had been a
creation of the CIA, the darlings of the Reagan Right, made
up largely of the vanquished followers of deposed

===== PDF PAGE 33 =====
Nicaraguan dictator Anastasio Somoza and his brutal
army, the National Guard. But drug trafficking? Surely, I
thought, if there had been some concrete evidence, it would
have stuck in my mind. Maybe I was confusing it with
something else.
During a break, I went to the restroom and bumped into
Assistant U.S. Attorney Hall. Just in case he and the FBI
really did think I was Coral's hit man, I introduced myself as
a reporter. Hall eyed me cautiously.
"Why would the 
Mercury News
 be interested in this
case?" he asked. "You should have been here two years
ago. This is old stuff now."
I considered tap dancing around his question. Normally I
didn't tell people what I was working on, because then they
didn't know what not to say. But I decided to hit Hall with it
head-on and see what kind of reaction I got. It would
probably be the last thing he'd expect to hear.
"I'm not really doing a story on this case. I'm looking into
one of the witnesses. A man named Blandón. Am I
pronouncing the name correctly?"
Hall appeared surprised. "What about him?"
"About his selling cocaine for the Contras."
Hall leaned back slightly, folded his arms, and gave me a
quizzical smile. "Who have you been talking to?"
"Actually, I've been reading. And I was curious to know
what you made of his testimony about selling drugs for the
Contras in L.A. Did you believe him?"
"Well, yeah, but I don't know how you could absolutely
confirm it. I mean, I don't know what to tell you," he said with
a slight laugh. "The CIA won't tell me anything."
I jotted down his remark. "Oh, you've asked them?"
"Yeah, but I never heard anything back. Not that I
expected to. But that's all ancient history. You're really doing

===== PDF PAGE 34 =====
a story about that?"
"I don't know if I'm doing a story at all," I said. "At this
point, I'm just trying to see if there is one. Do you know
where Blandón is these days?"
"Not a clue."
That couldn't be true, I thought. How could he 
not
 know?
He was one of the witnesses against Rafael Cornejo.
"From what I heard," I told him, "he's a pretty significant
witness in your case here. He hasn't disappeared, has he?
He is going to testify?"
Hall's friendly demeanor changed. "We're not at all
certain about that."
When I got back to Sacramento, I called my editor at the
main office in San Jose, Dawn Garcia, and filled her in on
the day's events. Dawn was a former investigative reporter
from the 
San Francisco Chronicle
 and had been the
Mercury
's state editor for several years, overseeing our
bureaus in Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Sacramento.
We had a good working relationship and had broken a
number of award-winning stories. Unlike many editors I'd
worked with, Dawn could size up a story's news value fairly
quickly.
I read her several portions of Blandón's grand jury
testimony.
"Weren't there some stories about this back in the
1980s?" she asked.
"See, that's what I thought. I remember something, but I
can't place the source."
"Maybe the Iran-Contra hearings?"
"I don't think so," I said. "I followed those hearings pretty
closely. I don't remember anything about drug trafficking."

===== PDF PAGE 35 =====
(Dawn's memory, it turned out, was better than mine.
During one part of Oliver North's congressional testimony in
July 1987, two men from Baltimore had jumped up in the
audience with a large banner reading, "Ask about the
cocaine smuggling." The men began shouting questions
—"What about the cocaine dealing that the U.S. is paying
for? Why don't you ask questions about drug deliveries?"—
as they were dragged from the room by the police.)
"So, what do you think?" she asked, editorese for "Is
there a story here and how long will it take to get it?"
"I don't know. I'd like to spend a little time looking into it at
least. Hell, if his testimony is true, it could be a pretty good
story. The Contras were selling coke in L.A.? I've never
heard that one before."
She mulled it over for a moment before agreeing. "It's not
like there's a lot going on in Sacramento right now," she
said. That was true enough. The sun-baked state capital
was entering its summertime siesta, when triple-digit
temperatures sent solons adjourning happily to mountain or
seashore locales.
With any luck, I was about to join them.
"I need to go down to San Diego for a couple days," I
said. "Blandón testified that he was arrested down there in
'92 for conspiracy, so there's probably a court file
somewhere. He may be living down there, for all I know.
Probably the quickest way to find out if what he was saying
is true is to find him."
Dawn okayed the trip, and a few days later I was in balmy
San Diego, squinting at microfiche in the clerk's office of
the U.S. District Court. I found Blandón's case file within a
few minutes.
He and six others, including his wife, had been secretly
indicted May 5, 1992, for conspiring to distribute cocaine.

===== PDF PAGE 36 =====
He'd been buying wholesale quantities from suppliers and
reselling it to other wholesalers. Way up on the food chain.
According to the indictment, he'd been a trafficker for ten
years, had clients nationwide, and had bragged on tape of
selling other L.A. dealers between two and four tons of
cocaine.
He was such a big-timer that the judge had ordered him
and his wife held in jail without bail because they posed "a
threat to the health and moral fiber of the community."
The file contained a transcript of a detention hearing,
held to determine if the couple should be released on bail.
Blandón's prosecutor, Assistant U.S. Attorney L. J.
O'Neale, brought out his best ammo to persuade the judge
to keep the couple locked up until trial. "Mr. Blandón's
family was closely associated with the Somoza government
that was overthrown in 1979," O'Neale said. Blandón had
been partners with a Jairo Meneses in 764 kilos of cocaine
that had been seized in Nicaragua in 1991, O'Neale
claimed, and he also owned hotels and casinos in
Nicaragua with Meneses. He had a house in Costa Rica.
He had a business in Mexico, relatives in Spain, phony
addresses all over the United States, and "unlimited
access to money."
"He is a large-scale cocaine trafficker and has been for a
long time," O'Neale argued. Given the amount of cocaine
he'd sold, O'Neale said, Blandón's minimum mandatory
punishment was "off the charts"—life plus a $4 million fine
—giving him plenty of incentive to flee the country.
Blandón's lawyer, Brad Brunon, confirmed the couple's
close ties to Somoza and produced a photo of them at a
wedding reception with 
El Presidente
 and his spouse. That
just showed what fine families they were from, he said. The
accusations in Nicaragua against Blandón, Brunon argued,

===== PDF PAGE 37 =====
were "politically motivated because of Mr. Blandón's
activities with the Contras in the early 1980s."
Damn, here it is again. His own lawyer says he was
working for the Contras.
Brunon argued that the government had no case against
his client, and no right to keep him in jail until the trial.
"There is not the first kilogram of cocaine that had been
seized in this case," Brunon said. "What you have are
accusations from a series of informants." But the judge
didn't see it that way. While allowing Chepita to post bond,
he ordered Danilo held without bail.
From the docket sheet, I could see that the case had
never gone to trial. Everyone had pleaded out, starting with
Blandón. Five months after his arrest, he pleaded guilty to
conspiracy, and the charges against his wife were
dropped. After that, his fugitive codefendants were quickly
arrested and pleaded guilty. But they all received extremely
short sentences. One was even put on unsupervised
probation.
I didn't get it. If O'Neale had such a rock-solid case
against a major drug-trafficking ring, why were they let off
so easily? People did more time for burglary. Even
Blandón, the ringleader, only got forty-eight months, and
from the docket sheet it appeared that was later cut almost
in half.
As I read on, I realized that Blandón was already back on
the streets—totally unsupervised. No parole. Free as a
bird. He'd walked out of jail September 19, 1994, on the
arm of an INS agent, Robert Tellez. He'd done twenty-eight
months for ten years of cocaine trafficking.
The last page of the file told me why. It was a motion filed
by U.S. Attorney O'Neale, asking the court to unseal
Blandón's plea agreement and a couple of internal Justice

===== PDF PAGE 38 =====
Department memorandums. "During the course of this
case, defendant Oscar Danilo Blandón cooperated with
and rendered substantial assistance to the United States,"
O'Neale wrote. At the government's request, his jail
sentence had been secretly cut twice. O'Neale then
persuaded the judge to let Blandón out of jail completely,
telling the court he was needed as a full-time paid informant
for the U.S. Department of Justice. Since he'd be
undercover, O'Neale wrote, he couldn't very well have
probation agents checking up on him. He was released on
unsupervised probation.
All of this information had once been secret, I noticed, but
since Blandón was going to testify in a case in northern
California (the Cornejo case, I presumed), O'Neale had to
have the plea agreement and all the records relating to his
sentence reductions unsealed and turned over to defense
counsel.
I walked back to my hotel convinced that I was on the
right track. Now there were two separate sources saying—
in court—that Blandón was involved with the Contras and
had been selling large amounts of cocaine in Los Angeles.
And when the government finally had a chance to put him
away forever, it had opened up the cell doors and let him
walk. I needed to find Blandón. I had a million questions
only he could answer.
I began calling the defense attorneys involved in the 1992
conspiracy case, hoping one of them would know what had
become of him. I struck out with every call. One of the
lawyers was out of town. The rest of them remembered next
to nothing about the case or their clients. "It was all over so
quickly I barely had time to open a file," one said. The
consensus was that once Blandón flipped, his compadres
scrambled to get the best deal they could, and no one

===== PDF PAGE 39 =====
prepared for trial. Discovery had been minimal.
But one thing wasn't clear. What had the government
gotten out of the deal that was worth giving Blandón and his
crew such an easy ride? O'Neale claimed he'd given
information about a murder in the Bay Area, but from what I
could see from his DEA and FBI interviews, he'd merely
told the government that the man had been murdered—
something the police already knew.
Back in Sacramento, I did some checking on the targets
of the 1994 grand jury investigation—the Meneses family—
and again my tipster's description proved accurate,
perhaps even understated. I found a 1991 story from the
San Francisco Chronicle
 and a 1986 
San Francisco
Examiner
 piece that strongly suggested that Meneses, too,
had been dealing cocaine for the Contras during the
1980s. One of the stories described him as the "king of
cocaine in Nicaragua" and the Cali cartel's representative
there. The 
Chronicle
 story mentioned that a U.S. Senate
investigation had run across him in connection with the
Contras and allegations of cocaine smuggling.
That must have been where I heard about this Contra
drug stuff before, I decided. A congressional hearing.
At the California State Library's Government Publications
Section, I scoured the CIS indices, which catalog
congressional hearings by topic and witness name.
Meneses wasn't listed, but there had been a series of
hearings back in 1987 and 1988, I saw, dealing with the
issue of the Contras and cocaine: a subcommittee of the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee, chaired by Senator
John Kerry of Massachusetts.
For the next six days I sat with rolls of dimes at a
microfiche printer in the quiet wood-paneled recesses of
the library, reading and copying many of the 1,100 pages of

===== PDF PAGE 40 =====
transcripts and exhibits of the Kerry Committee hearings,
growing more astounded each day. The committee's
investigators had uncovered direct links between drug
dealers and the Contras. They'd gotten into BCCI years
before anyone knew what that banking scandal even was.
They'd found evidence of Manuel Noriega's involvement
with drugs—years before the invasion. Many of the Kerry
Committee witnesses, I noted, later became U.S. Justice
Department witnesses against Noriega.
Kerry and his staff had taken videotaped depositions
from Contra leaders who acknowledged receiving drug
profits, with the apparent knowledge of the CIA. The drug
dealers had admitted—under oath—giving money to the
Contras, and had passed polygraph tests. The pilots had
admitted flying weapons down and cocaine and marijuana
back, landing in at least one instance at Homestead Air
Force Base in Florida. The exhibits included U.S. Customs
reports, FBI reports, internal Justice Department memos. It
almost knocked me off my chair.
It was all there in black and white. Blandón's testimony
about selling cocaine for the Contras in L.A. wasn't some
improbable fantasy. This could have actually happened.
I called Jack Blum, the Washington, D.C., attorney who'd
headed the Kerry investigation, and he confirmed that
Norwin Meneses had been an early target. But the Justice
Department, he said, had stonewalled the committee's
requests for information and he had finally given up trying to
obtain the records, moving on to other, more productive
areas. "There was a lot of weird stuff going on out on the
West Coast, but after our experiences with Justice. . .we
mainly concentrated on the cocaine coming into the East."
"Why is it that I can barely remember this?" I asked. "I
mean, I read the papers every day."

===== PDF PAGE 41 =====
"It wasn't in the papers, for the most part. We laid it all
out, and we were trashed," Blum said. "I've got to tell you,
there's a real problem with the press in this town. We were
totally hit by the leadership of the administration and much
of the congressional leadership. They simply turned around
and said, 'These people are crazy. Their witnesses are full
of shit. They're a bunch of drug dealers, drug addicts, don't
listen to them.' And they dumped all over us. It came from
every direction and every corner. We were even dumped
on by the Iran-Contra Committee. They wouldn't touch this
issue with a ten-foot pole."
"There had to have been some reporters who followed
this," I protested. "Maybe I'm naive, but this seems like a
huge story to me."
Blum barked a laugh. "Well, it's nice to hear someone
finally say that, even if it is ten years later. But what
happened was, our credibility was questioned, and we
were personally trashed. The administration and some
people in Congress tried to make us look like crazies, and
to some degree it worked. I remember having
conversations with reporters in which they would say, 'Well,
the administration says this is all wrong.' And I'd say, 'Look,
the guy is going to testify to X, Y, and Z. Why don't you
cover the fucking hearing instead of coming to me with
what the administration says?' And they'd say, 'Well, the
guy is a drug dealer. Why should I do that?' And I used to
say this regularly: 'Look, the minute I find a Lutheran
minister or priest who was on the scene when they were
delivering 600 kilos of cocaine at some air base in Contra-
land, I'll put him on the stand, but until then, you take what
you can get.' The big papers stayed as far away from this
issue as they could. It was like they didn't want to know."
There were two reporters, Blum said, who'd pursued the

===== PDF PAGE 42 =====
Contra drug story—Robert Parry and Brian Barger of the
Associated Press—but they'd run into the same problems.
Their stories were either trashed or ignored. There were
also two reporters in Costa Rica—a 
New York Times
stringer named Martha Honey and her husband, Tony
Avirgan, an ABC cameraman, who had gone after the story
as well, he said. Honey and Avirgan wound up being set up
on phony drug charges in Costa Rica, spied on in the
States by the FBI and former CIA agents, smeared, and
ruined financially.
"I know Bob Parry is still here in Washington somewhere.
He did the first stories and was one of the few who seemed
to know what he was doing. You might want to talk to him,"
Blum suggested.
Parry sounded slightly amused when I called him in
Virginia. "Why in the world would you want to go back into
this?" he asked. I told him of my discoveries about
Meneses and Blandón, and the latter's cocaine sales in
Los Angeles. I wondered if he or anyone else had ever
reported this before.
"Not that I'm aware of," Parry said. "We never really got
into where it was going once the cocaine arrived in the
United States. Our stories dealt mainly with the Costa
Rican end of things. This is definitely a new angle. You think
you can show it was being sold in L.A.?"
"Yeah, I do. Well, one of the guys has even testified to it
before a grand jury. But this is an area I've never done any
reporting on before so I guess what I'm looking for is a little
guidance," I told him. "Have you got any suggestions?"
There was a short silence on the other end of the phone.
"How well do you get along with your editors?" Parry finally
asked.
"Fine. Why do you ask?"

===== PDF PAGE 43 =====
"Well, when Brian and I were doing these stories we got
our brains beat out." Parry sighed. "People from the
administration were calling our editors, telling them we
were crazy, that our sources were no good, that we didn't
know what we were writing about. The Justice Department
was putting out false press releases saying there was
nothing to this, that they'd investigated and could find no
evidence. We were being attacked in the 
Washington
Times
. The rest of the Washington press corps sort of
pooh-poohed the whole thing, and no one else would touch
it. So we ended up being out there all by ourselves, and
eventually our editors backed away completely, and I ended
up quitting the AP. It was probably the most difficult time of
my career."
He paused. "Maybe things have changed, I don't know."
I was nonplussed. Bob Parry wasn't some fringe reporter.
He'd won a Polk Award for uncovering the CIA
assasination manual given to the Contras, and was the first
reporter to expose Oliver North's illegal activities. But what
he'd just described sounded like something out of a bad
dream. I told him I didn't think that would be a problem at
the 
Mercury
. I'd done some controversial stories before,
but the editors had stood by them, and we'd won some
significant awards. I felt good about the paper, I told him.
"One place you might try is the National Archives," Parry
offered. "They're in the process of declassifying Lawrence
Walsh's files, and I've found some pretty remarkable things
over there. It's a long shot, but if I were you, I'd file a FOIA
for the men you mentioned and see if anything turns up."
It 
was
 a long shot, but Parry's hunch paid off. My
Freedom of Information Act request produced several
important clues, among them a 1986 FBI report about
Blandón that alluded to a police raid and reported that

===== PDF PAGE 44 =====
Blandón's attorney, Brad Brunon, had called the L.A.
County Sheriff's Office afterward and claimed that the CIA
had "winked" at Blandón's activities. I also obtained 1987
FBI interviews with a San Francisco Contra supporter,
Dennis Ainsworth, in which he told of his discovery that
Norwin Meneses and a Contra leader named Enrique
Bermúdez were dealing arms and drugs.
I tracked down Ainsworth and had another disconcerting
conversation. You've got to be crazy, he said. He'd tried to
alert people to this ten years ago, and it had ruined his life.
"Nobody in Washington wanted to look at this. Republican,
Democrat, nobody. They wanted this story buried and
anyone who looked any deeper into it got buried along with
it," Ainsworth said. "You're bringing up a very old
nightmare. You have no idea what you're touching on here,
Gary. No idea at all."
"I think I've got a pretty good idea," I said.
"Believe me," he said patiently, "you don't understand. I
almost got killed. I had friends in Central America who were
killed. There was a Mexican reporter who was looking into
one end of this, and he wound up dead. So don't pretend
that you know."
"If the Contras were selling drugs in L.A., don't you think
people should know that?"
Ainsworth laughed. "L.A.? Meneses was selling it all over
the country! Listen, he ran one of the major distributions in
the U.S. It wasn't just L.A. He was national. And he was
totally protected."
"I think that's the kind of thing the public needs to know
about," I told him. "And that's why I need your help. You
know a lot more about this topic than I do."
He was unmoved. "Look, when I was trying to tell
Congress, I was getting death threats. And you're asking,

===== PDF PAGE 45 =====
you know, if I'm Jewish, would I like to go back and spend
another six months in Dachau? Leave this alone. Take my
advice. You can go on and write a lot of other things and
maybe win a Pulitzer Prize, but all you're going to be after
this is over is a persona non grata. Please. Everyone's
forgotten about this and moved on with their lives."
A few days later I got a call from Cornejo's girlfriend. My
one chance to hook up with Blandón had just fallen through.
"He isn't going to be testifying at Rafael's trial after all," she
told me. "Rafael's attorney won his motion to have the DEA
and FBI release the uncensored files, and the U.S. attorney
decided to drop him as a witness rather than do that. Can
you believe it? He was one of the witnesses they used to
get the indictment against Rafael, and now they're refusing
to put him on the stand."
I hung up the phone in a funk. Without him, I didn't have
much to go on. But there was always his boss—this
Meneses fellow. Getting to him was a tougher nut to crack,
but worth a shot. The girlfriend said she thought he was in
jail in Nicaragua, and the 
Chronicle
 clip I'd found noted that
he'd been arrested there in 1991. Maybe, I hoped, the
Nicaraguans locked their drug lords up longer than we did. I
was put in touch with a freelance reporter in Managua,
Georg Hodel, an indefatigable Swiss journalist who spoke
several languages and had covered Nicaragua during the
war. He taught college journalism classes, knew his way
around the Nicaraguan government, and had sources
everywhere. Better yet, with his Swiss-German-Spanish
accent, it was like talking to Peter Lorre. I persuaded Dawn
to hire Georg as a stringer, and he set off to find Meneses.
Meanwhile, the San Diego attorney who had been out of
town when I was looking for Blandón returned my call.
Juanita Brooks had represented Blandón's friend and

===== PDF PAGE 46 =====
codefendant, a Mexican millionaire named Sergio Guerra.
Another lawyer in her firm had defended Chepita Blandón.
She knew quite a bit about the couple.
"You don't happen to know where he is these days, do
you?"
"No, but I can tell you where he'll be in a couple of
months. Here in San Diego. Entirely by coincidence, I have
a case coming up where he's the chief prosecution witness
against my client."
"You're kidding," I said. "What case is this?"
"It's a pretty big one. Have you ever heard of someone
named Freeway Ricky Ross?"
Indeed I had. I'd run across him while researching the
asset forfeiture series in 1993. "He's one of the biggest
crack dealers in L.A.," I said.
"That's what they say," Brooks replied. "He and my client
and a couple others were arrested in a DEA reverse sting
last year and Blandón is the CI [confidential informant] in
the case."
"How did Blandón get involved with crack dealers?"
"I don't have a lot of details, because the government has
been very protective of him. They've refused to give us any
discovery so far," Brooks said. "But from what I understand,
Blandón used to be one of Ricky Ross's sources back in
the 1980s, and I suppose he played off that friendship."
My mind was racing. Blandón, the Contra fund-raiser,
had sold cocaine to the biggest crack dealer in South
Central L.A.? That was too much.
"Are you sure about this?"
"I wouldn't want you to quote me on it," she said, "but,
yes, I'm pretty sure. You can always call Alan Fenster,
Ross's attorney, and ask him. I'm sure he knows."
Fenster was out, so I left a message on his voice mail,

===== PDF PAGE 47 =====
telling him I was working on a story about Oscar Danilo
Blandón Reyes and wanted to interview him. When I got
back from lunch, I found a message from Fenster waiting. It
said: "Oscar who?"
My heart sank. I'd suspected it was a bum lead, but I'd
been keeping my fingers crossed anyway. I should have
known; that would have been too perfect. I called Fenster
back to thank him for his time, and he asked what kind of a
story I was working on. I told him—the Contras and
cocaine.
"I'm curious," he said. "What made you think this Oscar
person was involved in Ricky's case?"
I told him what Brooks had related, and he gasped.
"
He's
 the informant? Are you serious? No wonder those
bastards won't give me his name!" Fenster began
swearing a blue streak.
"Forgive me," he said. "But if you only knew what kind of
bullshit I've been going through to get that information from
those sons of bitches, and then some reporter calls me up
from San Jose and he knows all about him, it just makes
me—"
"Your client didn't tell you his name?"
"He didn't know it! He only knew him as Danilo, and then
he wasn't even sure that was his real name. You and Ricky
need to talk. I'll have him call you." He hung up abruptly.
Ross called a few hours later. I asked him what he knew
about Blandón. "A lot," he said. "He was almost like a
godfather to me. He's the one who got me going."
"Was he your main source?"
"He was. Everybody I knew, I knew through him. So
really, he could be considered as my only source. In a
sense, he was."
"When was this?"

===== PDF PAGE 48 =====
"Eighty-one or '82. Right when I was getting going."
Damn, I thought. That was right when Blandón said he
started dealing drugs.
"Would you be willing to sit down and talk to me about
this?" I asked.
"Hell, yeah. I'll tell you anything you want to know."
At the end of September 1995 I spent a week in San
Diego, going through the files of the Ross case,
interviewing defense attorneys and prosecutors, listening to
undercover DEA tapes. I attended a discovery hearing and
watched as Fenster and the other defense lawyers made
another futile attempt to find out details about the
government's informant, so they could begin preparing their
defenses. Assistant U.S. Attorney O'Neale refused to
provide a thing. They'd get what they were entitled to, he
promised, ten days before trial.
"See what I mean?" Fenster asked me on his way out.
"It's like the trial in 
Alice in Wonderland
."
I spent hours with Ross at the Metropolitan Correctional
Center. He knew nothing of Blandón's past, I discovered.
He had no idea who the Contras were or whose side they
were on. To him, Danilo was just a nice guy with a lot of
cheap dope.
"What would you say if I were to tell you that he was
working for the Contras, selling cocaine to help them buy
weapons and supplies?" I asked.
Ross goggled. "And they put me in jail? I'd say that was
some fuckedup shit there. They say I sold dope all over, but
man, I 
know
 he done sold ten times more than me. Are you
being straight with me?"
I told him I had documents to prove it. Ross just shook his
head and looked away.
"He's been working for the government the whole damn

===== PDF PAGE 49 =====
time," he muttered.

===== PDF PAGE 50 =====
"A Pretty secret kind of thing"
I
n July 1979, as his enemies massed in the hills and
suburbs of his doomed capital, the dictator huddled in his
mountainside bunker with his aides and his American
advisers and cursed his rotten luck.
For the forty-six years that Anastasio Somoza's family
had ruled the Republic of Nicaragua, the Somozas had
done nearly everything the U. S. government asked. No
after all his hard work, the Americans wanted him to
disappear. Somoza could barely believe it. He was glad he
had his tape recorder going, so history could bear witness
to his cruel betrayal.
"I have thrown many people out of their natural habitat
because of the U.S., fighting for your cause. . .so let's talk
like friends," Somoza told U.S. ambassador Lawrence
Pezzullo. "I threw a goddamned Communist out of
Guatemala," he reminded the ambassador, referring to the
role the Somoza family had played in the CIAs overthrow of
a liberal Guatemalan government in 1954. "I personally
worked on that."
When the CIA needed a secret base to prepare for the
Bay of Pigs invasion, Somoza couldn't have been a more
gracious host. "The U.S. called me, and I agreed to have
the bombers leave here and knock the hell out of the
installations in Cuba," Somoza stormed, "like a Pearl
Harbor deal." In 1965 he'd sent troops into the Dominican
Republic to help the United States quell another leftist
uprising. Hell, he'd even sent Nicaraguans off to fight in
Vietnam.
And now, when Somoza needed help, when it was his
soldiers who were locked in a life-and-death struggle with

===== PDF PAGE 51 =====
Communist aggressors, the Americans were selling him
out—all because of some nonsense about human rights
violations by his troops.
"It is embarrassing for you to be good friends with the
Somozas," the dictator told Pezzullo sarcastically. Somoza
then tried his trump card: If he went, the Nicaraguan
National Guard, the 
Guardia
, would surely be destroyed.
The 
Guardia
, as corrupt and deadly an organization as any
in Central America, served as Somoza's military, his
police, and his intelligence service.
Somoza knew the Americans would be loath to let their
investment in it go to waste. They had created the 
Guardia
in the 1930s and nurtured it carefully since, spending
millions of dollars a year supplying weapons and schooling
its officers in the complex arts of anticommunism.
"What are you going to do with the National Guard of
Nicaragua?" Somoza asked Pezzullo. "I don't need to
know, but after you have spent thirty years educating all of
these officers, I don't think it is fair for them to be thrown to
the wolves. . .. They have been fighting Communism just
like you taught them at Fort Gulick and Fort Benning and
Leavenworth—out of nine hundred officers we have, eight
hundred or so belong to your schools."
Pezzullo assured Somoza that the United States was
"willing to do what we can to preserve the Guard." Putting
aside its international reputation for murder and torture,
Pezzullo recognized that the 
Guardia
 was a bulwark
against anti-American interests and, as long as it existed,
could be used to keep Somoza's successors—whoever
they might be—in line. "We are not abandoning the Guard,"
he insisted. "We would like to see a force emerge here that
can stabilize the country." But for that to happen, Pezzullo
said, Somoza and his top generals needed to step down

===== PDF PAGE 52 =====
and give the 
Guardia
 "a clean break" from its bloodstained
past—before the Sandinistas marched in and it became
too late to salvage anything. "To make the break now. It is a
hell of a mess," Pezzullo said sympathetically. "Just sitting
here talking to you about it is strange enough. We are
talking about a break."
Somoza knew the game was over. "Let's not bullshit
ourselves, Mr. Ambassador. I am talking to a professional.
You have to do your dirty work, and I have to do mine."
In the predawn hours of July 17, 1979, Somoza and his
closest associates—his top generals, his business
partners, and their families—boarded two jets and flew to
Homestead Air Force Base in Florida to begin a vagabond
exile. The vaunted National Guard collapsed within hours.
Sandinista columns swarmed into the defenseless
capital, jubilantly proclaiming an end to both the 
Guardia
—
which had hunted the rebels mercilessly for more than a
decade—and Somoza. Those National Guard officers who
could escape poured across the borders into El Salvador,
Honduras, and Costa Rica, or hid inside the Colombian
embassy in Managua. Those who couldn't, wound up in
prison, and occasionally before firing squads.
Nine days after Somoza and his cronies were overthrown,
a handful of congressmen gathered in a hearing room in
the Rayburn House Office Building in Washington, D.C., to
discuss some disturbing activities in Latin America.
Though what had happened in Nicaragua was on
everyone's mind in the nation's capital that week, these
particular lawmakers had concerns that lay farther to the
south: in Colombia, in Bolivia, and in Peru.
They were worried about cocaine. The exotic South

===== PDF PAGE 53 =====
American drug seemed to be winning admirers
everywhere. References were turning up in movies, songs
and newspaper stories, and surprisingly, many of them
were positive. To Republican congressman Tennyson
Guyer, an elderly former preacher and thirty-third-degree
Mason from Findlay, Ohio, it seemed like the media was
hell-bent on glamorizing cocaine.
Guyer, an ultraconservative fond of loud suits and white
patent leather shoes, was the chairman of the Cocaine
Task Force of the House Select Committee on Narcotics
Abuse and Control, and he wasn't just going to stand by
and watch.
"Recent developments concerning the state of cocaine
have come to my attention, which call for decisive and
immediate action!" Guyer thundered as he opened his
cocaine hearings in July 1979. "The availability, abuse, and
popularity of cocaine in the United States has reached
pandemic proportions. . .. This is a drug which, for the most
part, has been ignored, and its increased use in our society
has caught us unprepared to cope effectively with this
menace."
But if Guyer was feeling menaced by cocaine, not too
many others were.
Many Americans who'd grown up during the drug-soaked
1960s reasoned that an occasional sniff of the fluffy white
powder was no more menacing than a couple of martinis—
and considerably more chic. Cocaine didn't give you a
hangover. It didn't scramble your brains. Many doctors
believed you couldn't get hooked on it. It made you feel
great. It kept the pounds off. And there was a definite
cachet associated with using it. Just the price of admission
to Club Cocaine was enough to keep out the riffraff. At
$2,500 an ounce and up, it was a naughty pleasure

===== PDF PAGE 54 =====
reserved for a special few: the "so-called elites" and the
"intellectual classes," as Guyer derisively termed them.
Even the paraphernalia associated with the drug—
sterling silver cocaine spoons and tightly rolled $100 bills—
carried an aura of decadence. In the public's mind, cocaine
was associated with fame and fortune.
"The rediscovery of cocaine in the Seventies was
unavoidable," a Los Angeles psychologist gushed to a
convention of drug experts in 1980, "because its
stimulating and pleasure-causing properties reinforce the
American character, with its initiative, its energy, its
restless activity and its boundless optimism."
While the street corners played host to lowbrow and
much more dangerous drugs—angel dust, smack, meth—
coke stayed up in the penthouses, nestled in exquisitely
carved bowls and glittering little boxes. It came out at
private parties, or in the wash rooms of trendy nightclubs.
Unless some celebrity got caught with it by accident, street
cops almost never saw the stuff.
"My first ten years as a narcotics agent, my contact with
cocaine was very minimal," recalled Jerald Smith, who ran
the San Francisco office of the California Bureau of
Narcotics Enforcement during the 1980s. "As a matter of
fact, the first few years, the only cocaine I ever saw was an
ounce some guy would take around as a training aid to
teach you what it looked like. Because it was something
you saw so rarely. Our big thing[s] in those days were pills
and heroin and marijuana."
But if Reverend Guyer thought the experts he'd
summoned to Washington were going to help him change
the public's mind about cocaine sniffing, he was badly
mistaken. Witness after witness trooped up to the
microphone to tell Congress that cocaine was not only a

===== PDF PAGE 55 =====
relatively safe drug but so rare that it could hardly be called
a nuisance, much less the "menace" Guyer was
advertising.
"Daily cocaine use is extremely uncommon, simply
because of the high cost," testified Robert C. Petersen,
assistant director of research for the National Institute on
Drug Abuse. "Under present conditions of use, it has not
posed a very serious health problem for most. Rarely does
it cause a problem."
Lee I. Dogoloff, the White House's drug expert,
concurred. "It is our assumption," he said, "that the current
relatively low level of health problems associated with
cocaine use reflects the relatively high price and relatively
low availability of the substance."
To make the point, the head of the Drug Enforcement
Administration, Peter Bensinger, told the committee he had
brought $800,000 worth of cocaine to show them. He pulled
out a little bag and dangled it before his rapt audience.
"That is simulated, I trust?" Guyer inquired.
"No, that is actual coca," Bensinger replied. A sample,
he said, of seized contraband.
"I can't believe you are holding almost $1 million there!"
Guyer sputtered. "We ought to have security in the hearing
room!"
"We have some special agents in the room, I assure
you," Bensinger said.
The experts were careful to note that if cocaine became
cheaper, it would be more widely available and might pose
a bigger problem than anyone realized, but no one seemed
to think there was much chance of that happening. Most of
the smugglers, Bensinger said, were just bringing amounts
small enough to put in a suitcase or stash on their body.
"We don't think people are bringing cocaine across the

===== PDF PAGE 56 =====
border, to a large extent, in a car from Mexico." He
recommended that Congress, instead of trying to prevent
the drug from coming in over the borders, concentrate its
efforts on getting the Peruvians and Bolivians to stop
growing coca plants.
Dr. Robert Byck, a drug expert from Yale University, sat
in the audience listening patiently to the testimony all day.
When it was Byck's turn to speak, Guyer warmly welcomed
him up to the witness table, complimenting him on his "very,
very impressive" academic and professional credentials.
Byck thanked Guyer and then politely ripped into the
federal government for spreading misinformation about the
drug. "What I would like to talk to you about for the most
part is the importance of telling the truth," Byck, a professor
of psychiatry and pharmacology at Yale Medical School,
began. The truth was that cocaine wasn't the horrible health
hazard Americans were being told it was. "Cocaine doesn't
have the kind of health consequences that one sees with
drugs such as alcohol and cigarettes. Right now, if we look
at the hospital admission records and death records,
cocaine doesn't look like a dangerous drug. . .. We have
given a great deal of cocaine to many individuals and find it
to be a most unremarkable drug. We are giving cocaine by
nose to normal young men. When anyone visits our
laboratory, they look at the TV screen and say, 'That guy
took cocaine?' They don't jump around, they don't get
excited; they sit calmly and experience a drug high and
don't become dangerous."
"What about five years later?" Guyer cried. "Are the
membranes and so on not affected at all?"
"The damage to people's membranes is quite rare with
cocaine. It does occur, but it is a rare phenomenon," Byck
answered. "Part of this is because people don't use very

===== PDF PAGE 57 =====
much cocaine. It is expensive. Tell me the last alcoholic you
saw with cirrhosis of the liver when cirrhosis was caused by
Dom Perignon. You almost never see it."
As most Americans were using it, Byck said, cocaine "is
a very safe drug. You almost never see anesthetic death
due to cocaine. There have been a series of 14,000
consecutive doses of cocaine given with no deaths. Deaths
from cocaine are very, very rare. They do occur, and I think
it is important to recognize that they occur. But actually, the
drug, in terms of the risk of killing people, is comparatively
safe. If you want a dangerous drug, take digitalis or digoxin.
. .. It is a heart drug. And that is really deadly, one of the
deadliest poisons known."
"But that is used to save lives," Guyer countered.
"Yes, it is used to save lives," Byck said. "Cocaine is
also used medically. So you cannot take whether or not
something can kill you as a measure of dangerousness."
What the government was doing with its scare
campaigns about cocaine, Byck complained, was
poisoning the well. It was ruining the government's
credibility with the public, just when the government needed
its credibility to be impeccable. "I think we make a mistake
when we say that snorting cocaine every once in a while is
a dangerous habit and is going to kill people, because it
does not," Byck said flatly. "There are a great many people
around who have been snorting cocaine and know that their
friends haven't gotten into trouble. If you then tell those
people that cocaine is very dangerous, they won't believe it.
Then, when you get to the next step—when you are talking
about something that 
is
 really dangerous—they are not
going to believe you the second time." And that brought
Byck to the real reason he was in Washington on a humid
day in late July.

===== PDF PAGE 58 =====
He was there to deliver a warning from the scientific
community.
Something bad was coming, Byck knew, something so
deadly awful that the only way to prevent a catastrophe was
for the government to tell the truth, and pray to God that it
was believed. "I think we have to be careful that the
government is believed about cocaine, because there are
dangers associated with the drug," Byck said vaguely.
"These dangers are not particularly associated with the
present use pattern."
Byck told the committee that he'd hesitated for a long
time about coming forward with the information and was
still reluctant to discuss the matter in a public hearing.
"Usually when things like this are reported, the media
advertises them, and this attention has been a problem with
cocaine all along."
Chairman Guyer, who'd spent two decades as a public
relations man for an Ohio tire company, told Byck to spit it
out. "[The purpose of our panel] is to bring into the open
what has been, up to now, a pretty secret kind of thing."
The information Byck had was known to only a handful of
drug researchers around the world. And it was as
frightening a spectacle as any they'd ever seen.
For about a year, a Peruvian police psychiatrist named
Dr. Raul Jeri had been insisting that wealthy drug users in
Lima were being driven insane by cocaine. A psychiatrist in
Bolivia, Dr. Nils Nova, began making similar claims shortly
thereafter. Their reports, written in Spanish and published
in obscure medical journals, went largely unnoticed in the
United States because, frankly, they sounded so weird.
The first problem was that all of recorded history was
against them. Peru and Bolivia had been producing
cocaine products for thousands of years, with few reports of

===== PDF PAGE 59 =====
the drug causing serious medical effects. At the same time,
some of America's leading researchers were claiming that
cocaine was nonaddictive and perhaps should be
legalized.
Jeri, a professor of clinical neurology at the National
University of San Marcos, claimed a cocaine "epidemic"
had swept through Lima's fashionable neighborhoods in
1974 and spread like a grass fire to Peru's other major
cities: Piura, Trujillo, Chiclayo, Chimbote, Huaraz, lea,
Arequipa, and Cuzco. Within two years, he said, the
alleged epidemic had engulfed Ecuador and Bolivia.
No one had heard of anything like it before. It also didn't
help that the psychiatrists' studies read like the script of
Reefer Madness
, painting scenes of jails and insane
asylums filling up with legions of half-mad drug fiends.
"When seen, these patients were generally very thin,
unkempt, pale and looking suspiciously from one side to
the other," Jeri wrote. "These movements were associated.
. .with visual hallucinations (shadows, light or human
figures) which they observed in the temporal fields of
vision." Many of the patients bore scratches from trying to
dig out the hallucinations they felt crawling under their skin,
and they claimed they were being "followed by persons or
shadows that seemed to want to catch, attack, or kill them. .
.three patients died in this series, two by acute intoxication
and one by suicide."
It wasn't a new drug that was causing this reaction, Jeri
and Noya reported, but a new trick from an old dog. Instead
of sniffing tiny crystals of cocaine up their nose, as
Americans were doing, the Peruvians and Bolivians were
smoking a paste known variously as 
pasta basica de
cocaina, base
, or 
basuco
. It was all the same thing—the
gooey mess that leached out of solvent-soaked coca

===== PDF PAGE 60 =====
leaves. Coca paste was an intermediate substance
created on the way to manufacturing the white powder
known to most cocaine users. People had started drying
the paste, crumbling it into cigarettes, and smoking it.
For the serious drug abuser, paste's advantages over
powder were enormous.
You could smoke as much as you wanted. With powder,
only a small amount could be stuffed up one's nose, and it
took time for the drug to kick in, because first it had to be
absorbed by the nasal membranes. Eventually the nose got
numb.
Cocaine vapor, on the other hand, hit the vast surface
area of the lungs immediately and delivered an
instantaneous sledgehammer high. Users described the
feeling as more intense than orgasm; some called it a
"whole body orgasm." And there was no limit to the amount
of vapor the lungs could process. Paste had the added
advantage of being richer in actual cocaine than the
powder commonly sold—40–85 percent as opposed to
12–20 percent—and was far cheaper. In terms of bang for
the buck, it couldn't be beat.
"Many patients said they found no other drug as
pleasurable as this one," Jeri wrote. "Paste was almost
unknown six years ago. Now it is the main drug reported by
patients who are admitted to psychiatric hospitals or drug
treatment centers in Lima. There is no zone of this city
where youngsters do not get together to smoke coca paste
and where pushers do not sell the drug in their own homes
or in the street. They even come to the school entrances to
do their business."
But there was a price to pay for such a blissful rush. The
feeling lasted only a few minutes, and nirvana could only be
reattained by another hit—quickly—or a crushing

===== PDF PAGE 61 =====
depression would follow, the devil's own version of the
cocaine blues. It was a roller-coaster ride, and invariably
the user couldn't keep up the pace.
Jeri was deeply troubled by his research, comparing
paste smokers to those suffering from a malignant disease.
"It is hard to believe to what extremes of social degradation
these men may fall, especially those who were brilliant
students, efficient professionals, or successful
businessmen," he wrote. "These individuals became so
dependent on the drug that they had practically no other
interest in life."
The Bolivian psychiatrist Nils Noya claimed that the drug
caused "irreversible brain damage" and wrote that cocaine
smokers literally could not stop once they started. Some
users, he reported, smoked sixty to eighty cocaine-laced
cigarettes in a single session. Cocaine-smoking parties
would go on for days, ending only when the supplies dried
up or the smokers passed out. "Immediately after smoking
a cigarette, they have diarrhea," Nova said in a 1978
interview. "I mean immediately But the worst part is they
have to go on smoking until they finish the box [of paste]."
Jeri wrote that cocaine smoking was largely confined to
Peru, Bolivia, Ecuador, and Colombia, but there were
ominous signs that it was moving northward. "We do not
know if coca paste has been introduced to America, but
Panamanian authorities have reported heavy transportation
of coca paste by American and Peruvian citizens," Jeri
wrote in 1979, citing an unpublished Panamanian police
report.
Byck, who among other things had collected and edited
Sigmund Freud's cocaine papers, had been skeptical of
the South American reports until he sent one of his students
down to Peru on a summer project. In the spring of 1978 a

===== PDF PAGE 62 =====
first-year Yale med student named David Paly came to
Byck with an idea the scientist found intriguing: Paly wanted
to measure the blood plasma levels of Peru's coca-leaf-
chewing Indians to see what it was that got the Indians high.
Plenty had been written about the cultural aspects of the
habit, Paly told Byck, but no one had ever done any real
experiments to see what it was that the leaf put in the
Indians' bloodstream, and how much of it got there.
Paly, who had in interest in Peru from earlier travels
there, said he "dreamed up" the project in order to start
work on his thesis. "It was a fairly rudimentary proposal, but
Yale has a thesis requirement for an M.D.—it's the only
medical school in the country that does—so you have to
start a proposal early in your career."
Coincidentally, Byek had recently gotten a letter from a
prominent Peruvian neurosurgeon, Dr. Fernando
Cabieses, who proposed some cooperative research on
cocaine. At the time, the Peruvian government was
cracking down on coca chewing and Cabieses believed
the Indians were being harassed unfairly. He was looking
for some scientific evidence to back up his arguments that
the Indians' social customs should be left alone. Both Byck
and Cabieses liked Paly's idea, and the Peruvian agreed
to provide the lab facilities, test subjects, transportation,
and assistants.
Soon a delighted Paly was winging his way to South
America to spend his summer among the Indians in the
mountains of Peru. Cabieses squired the young Yalie
around Lima and introduced him to his friends in the arts
and sciences. One man Paly met through Cabieses was
Dr. Raul Jeri, who latched onto him and began telling him of
his research into cocaine smoking. Jeri, who was also a
general in the Peruvian military police, insisted on showing

===== PDF PAGE 63 =====
Paly the wretched victims of this new drug habit he'd
discovered. Mostly to humor his influential new
acquaintance, Paly agreed to accompany Jcri to the
psychiatric institute where Jeri worked as a consultant. Paly
left the hospital more doubtful than before.
"I interviewed some of these quote unquote 
pastaleros
,
and to my mind, one of them was clearly schizophrenic,"
Paly said. "Another one appeared to be a poly-drug
abuser. I mean this guy had done everything from Valium to
Quaaludes. So I was very unimpressed when I went around
with him that first time."
Reading Jeri's studies did nothing to enhance Paly's
opinion, either. They "were mainly observational and not
very scientific," he said. It wasn't until Paly began making
friends in Lima that he started changing his mind about the
insistent general's work.
"I began to hear. . .about their friends who were dropping
out of medical school and dropping out of college and
basically turning into raging cocaine addicts," Paly recalled.
"They were good kids who had essentially abandoned their
lives and turned into wildly addicted base smokers. They
were stealing from their grandmothers and doing all the
kinds of things that you would associate with a heroin
addict. . .and there were thousands of them."
On motorcycle trips through Lima with his friends, Paly
said, he'd "drive down these streets and the places would
stink of cocaine. They would stink of it. You'd come around
a corner and you could smell it for miles. It has a very
characteristic, sweet odor. And these weren't slums either.
These were middle-class neighborhoods that my friends
had grown up in, and now their friends were hanging out in
the middle of the street, gaunt, and totally strung out."
Alarmed, Paly called Byck at Yale and told him what he'd

===== PDF PAGE 64 =====
seen. "The substance of my conversation with Byck, if I
remember correctly, was that if this shit ever hits the U.S.,
we're in deep trouble."
Said Byck, "I remember the phone call very vividly. He
said something was going on down there, and I told him to
get some bloods [samples] and bring them back with him."
Paly drew blood samples from random smokers and had
them analyzed at the Laboratories of Clinical
Psychopharmacology at Yale that fall.
"Peter Jatlow, who was the lab director, said they had the
highest plasma levels of cocaine that he'd ever seen in
someone who wasn't dead," Paly recalled. "If the average
experimental plasma level they were getting in the lab from
ingesting—snorting—cocaine was 100 [nanograms per
mil], these—these were in the thousands."
Byck quickly got some federal grant money and sent Paly
back to Lima to do some controlled experiments on
cocaine smokers. Jeri, with his police connections,
obtained the necessary permits and approvals, procured a
half-kilo of coca paste and some cocaine smokers, and
allowed Paly to bring them all to a room at the Peruvian
Museum of Health Sciences. Most of them were young men
in their twenties. Paly put on some music, served food and
refreshments, and then brought out a box of coca paste.
"All subjects, calm while sitting in the room before the
experiment, became markedly anxious as the box
containing the paste was brought into the room," Paly
wrote. "This nervousness became pronounced as they
were preparing their first cigarettes and was evidenced by
shaky hands and extremely sweaty palms and foreheads.
This nervousness was borne out by the high blood pressure
and heart rates taken immediately before smoking. This
anxiety reaction is common to most experienced cocaine

===== PDF PAGE 65 =====
smokers and will often be brought on by the mere thought of
smoking."
Paly was both fascinated and repelled. "It was
Pavlovian," he said. "It was just unbelievable. Some of
these kids, in the lab, would smoke twenty grams of paste
and then, after you had paid them for their time, they would
run out on the street with the money and buy more."
While Paly was running his experiments in Peru, further
evidence was emerging in the United States that Raul
Jeri's laughable predictions of a North American "cocaine
invasion" were right on the mark. In February 1979 a
psychologist from UCIA, Ronald K. Siegel, had a letter
printed in the prestigious 
New England journal of Medicine
warning of "a growing trend" toward cocaine smoking in the
western United States. Siegel, who'd been researching
cocaine use in the Los Angeles area since the early 1970s,
was a well-known drug expert who had become something
of a media darling, always ready with a good quote for
reporters wanting the inside scoop on the latest drug craze
in La-La Land.
Siegel had started a pioneering research project in 1975
by taking out newspaper ads seeking longtime cocaine
users. L.A. being L.A., he got plenty of responses. He
selected ninety-nine cocaine users, mostly young males,
and proposed keeping in touch with them over the next four
years so he could monitor the results of constant, long-term
cocaine use.
His findings were great news for cokeheads. Not only did
cocaine make you feel good, Siegel reported, but it had
very few adverse psychological effects, and as a bonus, it
helped you lose weight. "By the end of the study,
approximately 38% of the subjects had shown increased
elevation of the Euphoria Scale, indicating increased

===== PDF PAGE 66 =====
happiness and contentment with life," Siegel wrote. Only 5
percent of the subjects reported psychological problems,
such as suspiciousness or paranoia, and Siegel dismissed
those complaints as hypochondria or "perceptual"
disturbances.
"Taken together, individuals reported experiencing some
positive effects in all intoxications and negative effects in
only 3% of the intoxications," he wrote. Even those negative
effects "were usually of short duration and infrequent
occurrence." All in all, Siegel concluded, the long-term
negative effects of cocaine use "were consistently
overshadowed by the long-term positive benefits."
There was, however, a curious footnote to Siegel's study,
which the psychologist mentioned in passing. Over the
course of his study, which ran from 1975 to 1978, six of the
original ninety-nine cocaine users had become confirmed
cocaine smokers, puffing something known on the streets
as "freebase." Siegel was sufficiently intrigued to perform
some cocaine-smoking experiments on monkeys,
discovering that three out of three apes, given a choice
between smoking lettuce or cocaine, clearly-preferred
coke.
So when Siegel read Jeri's reports about the cocaine
smoking epidemic in South America, he realized the
Peruvian was wrong about one thing: the habit wasn't
confined to South America anymore. It had already planted
its seeds in L.A. and was starting to pop up in other cities
as well, building a devoted following among certain circles
of rich drug users. Worse, Yankee ingenuity had already
been at work, improving upon the deadly product, making it
easier to use and more appealing to refined American
tastes.
The substance Jeri's subjects were using, coca paste,

===== PDF PAGE 67 =====
came mostly from the jungle cocaine-processing labs that
dotted Peru and Bolivia. Paste was an ugly gray glob laden
with residues of the toxic solvents used to extract it from the
coca leaves—kerosene, acid, and other chemicals.
Some analyses had even found brick dust and leaded
gasoline in it. Paste was hardly ever sold in the United
States.
What Americans got for their drug dollars was the
finished product, the sparkling white crystals of cocaine
hydrochloride powder. But cocaine powder was made to
be snorted. It was extremely difficult to smoke because of
its high boiling point. So what was it that Siegel's patients
were using, this cocaine they called "freebase"?
Siegel learned that it was cocaine powder that had been
reverse-engineered to become smokable again. He traced
the discovery of the process to the San Francisco Bay
Area in January 1974, around the time that coca paste
smoking had started becoming popular in Peru. According
to Siegel, California cocaine traffickers who were
journeying to Peru and Colombia for their wares "heard of
the people down there smoking 
base
." Though the
Colombians were referring to coca paste, Siegel said, the
Americans "mispronounced it, mistranslated the Spanish,
and thought it was cocaine base. So they looked it up in the
Merck Manual, saw cocaine base and said, 'Yeah, that's
just the alkaloid of cocaine hydrochloride,' which is street
cocaine."
By a relatively simple chemical process, Siegel said, the
dealers took the powder and "removed the hydrochloride
salt, thus freeing the cocaine base. Hence the expression
'freebasing.' That was something they could smoke,
because it was volatile. And they were wowed by it when
they smoked it." The traffickers "thought they were smoking

===== PDF PAGE 68 =====
base
. They were not. They were smoking something that
nobody else on the planet had ever smoked before."
By 1977, kits to extract freebase from cocaine powder
were available commercially; ads were appearing in the
underground press and in drug magazines. But since
cocaine powder was so expensive, free-basing was a habit
practiced only by a few rich drug dealers or avant garde
celebrities. "They had very inefficient processes in those
days and thought you needed large bags of cocaine to
reduce to the cocaine freebase. So during the early years,
only dealers and very wealthy users engaged in this,"
Siegel said.
Dr. Sidney Cohen, another California scientist who
recognized the dangers of cocaine smoking early on, wrote
in 1980 that the only good thing about freebase was that it
was "the most expensive of all mood changers when price
is measured against euphoria time. Affluent are the only
ones who can afford it."
In December 1978, after comparing notes with Jeri,
Siegel fired off his letter to the 
New England Journal of
Medicine
, alerting the medical profession that there were
problems afoot. "Users are now experimenting with
smoking cocaine alkaloid or base," he wrote. "Free-base
parties have become increasingly popular and the practice
has spread from California to Nevada, Colorado, New
York, South Carolina and Florida."
Siegel's letter appeared in the 
Journal
 in February 1979.
Five months later, in July, he, along with Paly, Byck, Jeri,
and other cocaine researchers, found themselves together
in Lima for an international symposium on cocaine. It was
the first chance North American and South American drug
researchers had had to compare notes and discuss their
latest work.

===== PDF PAGE 69 =====
While the experts split on what to do about powder
cocaine, those who'd been studying cocaine smoking were
unanimous about their findings: there was a monster loose,
a drug capable of totally enslaving its user.
At the Lima conference, the stories continued to pour in.
Two Bolivian psychiatrists from La Paz, Gregorio Aramayo
and Mario Sanchez, told of seeing patients coming in for
treatment in bare feet and borrowed clothes. "One of the
patients said, 'This damn drug, doctor, I have had to sell
even my clothes in order to buy it.'" Eighty percent of their
patients, they reported, had committed "impulsive acts
such as thefts, swindling, clothes-selling and others in order
to buy more drug."
The Lima conference had taken place only two weeks
before Byck appeared in Washington, and the stories he'd
heard were fresh in his mind as he sat before Guyer's
committee and listened to America's drug experts pooh-
pooh the dangers of cocaine.
Once, Byck testified, he was in their camp. No longer. "I
have come to the absolute, clear conclusion that it should
not be legalized under any circumstances," he said.
Cocaine smoking "can represent the same threat that the
speed epidemics of the 1960's represented in their time. .
.. We are on the verge of a dangerous drug use
phenomenon."
Byck also wasn't the only American scientist who
attended the Lima conference and came back alarmed.
"The impact of these experiences was impressive, and
observers from the National Institute on Drug Abuse
(NIDA), the White House, and the Department of State
reported on the growing problem in South America when
they returned to the U.S.," said a 1982 study. Two of those
observers, from NIDA and the White House, backed up

===== PDF PAGE 70 =====
Byck's warnings at the hearing.
But there was still time to prevent a catastrophe, Byck
told the committee. "We do not yet have an epidemic of
freebase or coca paste smoking in the United States. The
possibility is strong that this might occur," Byck testified. "I
have reports from California, from Chicago, and from New
York about people who are smoking the substance, and I
hear there are numbers of people now in San Francisco
smoking the substance. Here is a chance for the federal
government to engage in an educational campaign to
prevent a drug abuse epidemic." The government needed
to do three things "as rapidly as possible. Number one, find
out about it. Number two, establish some kind of
collaboration with the media; and number three, show what
happens when this drug is used, so that we don't get an
epidemic. We need our best minds to figure out how to do
this without advertising the drug."
But the congressmen weren't interested in discussing
educational campaigns or public service announcements.
That wouldn't get any cocaine off the streets. What they
wanted to know was this: What about the DEA's plan to ask
the Peruvians and Bolivians to please quit growing coca
plants?
Byck scoffed. "I don't think you can eliminate the growing
of coca in Peru and countries which have had it for
thousands of years."
"Not with [crop] substitutions?" Guyer asked.
"I don't think so."
"That is not going to work?" Guyer persisted.
"It 
can't
 work," Byck said, "if you consider these are
crops grown on the slopes of mountains near jungle, and
grown by people for their own use for 2,000 years. And
talking about wiping it out? You have a better chance of

===== PDF PAGE 71 =====
wiping out tobacco in Virginia."
"We'll come back to this," Guyer promised, and the
Cocaine Task Force hurried from the room for a break.
They never came back to Byck's warnings.
When the hearings resumed, the congressmen
peppered the witnesses with such questions as whether
they thought Hollywood cocaine use was contributing to the
deterioration of quality TV shows (as one of them had
heard recently on the 
Mike Douglas Show
); if it was true
that Coca-Cola once contained cocaine; and if the TV
series 
Quincy
, in which Jack Klugman played a coroner,
was "accurate" or if it was "way out." Not another word was
said about doing research or warning the public about the
dangers of cocaine smoking. Byck left the hearing stunned.
"Nobody paid any attention," he recalled. "They listened to
it, and everyone said, 'So what?' I felt very strongly that the
information that I had should have caused somebody to
say, 'All right! We've got to start finding out about this stuff!'
But they didn't."
Instead, Congress and the Carter administration did
exactly the opposite of what Byck advised. It embarked on
"the Andean strategy" advocated by the DEA to wipe out
the coca plant, a tactic that even its supporters now
concede was a failure. Nor did the federal government
seem all that eager to allow scientists to do their own
research into cocaine smoking, or to help them spread the
alarm.
When Siegel, under U.S. government contract, finished a
massive report on the history and literature of cocaine
smoking, he couldn't get the government to publish it,
allegedly due to concerns that readers would rush out and
start smoking once they found out how to turn powder into
freebase.

===== PDF PAGE 72 =====
"They wanted me to do a scientific paper about cocaine
smoking, but not to tell anyone how it was done," Siegel
said disgustedly. "I tried to explain that people already
knew how it was done. That's why there was a problem."
Concerned that the information might never get out, he
published it himself in a small medical journal two years
later.
In 1982, Raul Jeri came to the United States to deliver
his warnings in person.
He showed up at the California Conference on Cocaine,
a well-attended affair held at a hotel in balmy Santa
Monica, a few miles south of Los Angeles. Surrounded by
palm trees and hibiscus, with the sounds of the ocean
breaking in the background, the setting was perfect for a
gabfest about such a sexy topic. Reporters flocked to the
event, mobbing LSD guru Dr. Timothy Leary for a few
witticisms about cocaine.
If any of them sat through Raul Jeri's presentation, it is
likely they came away with the conviction that the thin, dark
Peruvian was even stranger than Leary. Jeri showed his
American colleagues a few slides, and in broken English
tried to bang the drum about the dangers of cocaine
smoking, which he claimed would result in "grave incurable
cases of dementia." He trotted out his horror stories about
the walking dead, the coke zombies that populated Peru.
He showed more slides. "I would like to warn the U.S.
against the plague which has reached its borders!" Jeri
said dramatically, as the lights came back on. "The
trivialization of cocaine use is a curse on humanity!"
The speech was "followed by an uneasy silence," a
doctor in the audience remembered. How did Jeri treat
such patients? someone asked.
Nothing worked really, Jeri said. They'd tried everything.

===== PDF PAGE 73 =====
Long periods of confinement, heavy doses of tranquilizers,
lobotomies. It didn't matter. The relapse rate was between
50 and 80 percent, he said.
Um, lobotomies, did you say?
"Yes, surgical lobotomy—cyngulotomy, to be precise,"
Jeri said. He assured the audience that the brain surgery
was done "only in desperate cases on incurable repeaters,
often upon request by the family and with the patient's
consent."
It was hard for Jeri's listeners to imagine how cocaine
could become so addictive that a person would volunteer
for brain surgery. "How barbaric," one muttered.
Byck said the Food and Drug Administration shut down
attempts to do any serious research on addiction or
treatment, refusing to approve grant requests or research
proposals and withholding the government permits
necessary to run experiments with controlled substances.
"The FDA almost totally roadblocked our getting anything
done. They insisted that they had total control over whether
we could use a form of cocaine for experimental purposes,
and without a so-called IND [an Investigation of New Drug
permit] we couldn't go ahead with any cocaine
experiments. And they wouldn't give us an IND."
Why not? "Once you get into the morass of government,
you never understand exactly who is doing what to whom
and why," Byck said.
Eight months before he appeared before Guyer's task
force, Byck had requested official government permission
to bring a coca paste sample into the United States for
laboratory analysis. He filled out many forms, turned the
sample over to a DEA agent in Lima, and never saw it
again. "I now have a number of licenses I never had before,
but no samples," Byck told Guyer's committee sarcastically.

===== PDF PAGE 74 =====
"The regulations which govern the legal importation of
cocaine and coca research are much more effective than
the regulations which seem to govern smoking or
smuggling."

===== PDF PAGE 75 =====
"We were the first"
T
he same day the world's cocaine experts were gathered
in Lima to discuss the approaching drug epidemic—July 5,
1979—a man who would help spread it across Los
Angeles was touching down at LAX. It had been a rough
couple of weeks for Oscar Danilo Blandón Reyes, a pudgy
twenty-seven-year-old refugee from the Nicaraguan civil
war.
Not long before he'd had the world on a platter. He'd
been rich, the second son of a wealthy landowner. His wife,
Chepita, had been rich, a daughter of one of the country's
most prominent political families. He had a brand-new
M.B.A., a cushy government job, and a couple of
businesses—an import-export company and a travel
agency—on the side. One of his firms had a lucrative
contract to supply American food to the Nicaraguan
National Guard, the institution that ran the country.
Danilo and Chepita Blandón were solidly plugged into
the power structure of General Anastasio Somoza's
dictatorship, which was benevolent only in the ways that it
rewarded its friends. The Somoza family owned nearly all of
the country's biggest corporations—the national airline, the
power company, the biggest hotel, the biggest department
store, the cement factory, a newspaper. . .you name it, they
owned it. It was hard to earn a living in Nicaragua if the
Somozas took a dislike to you. But those families who
stayed loyal and pleased the dictator partook of the riches
that only a wall-to-wall monopoly can provide. The Blandóns
had been blessed by Somoza's smile.
Then the Sandinistas had come to town and spoiled
everything.

===== PDF PAGE 76 =====
As Danilo Blandón stepped off the jet from Miami into the
vast terminal at LAX, he found himself jobless, nearly
broke, and homeless—human driftwood from a faraway,
conquered land.
"[He came here] with one hand in the front and one in the
back, you know what I mean?" his cousin Flor Reyes said.
All he and his wife had grown up accepting as their
birthright—the elegant mansions, the servants, the vacation
homes, the elite private schools—was gone, and he
dreaded would soon be the property of some grasping
commandante.
Though Somoza's army had beaten them down time and
again, the Sandinistas rose up from the earth in the
summer of 1978 to begin an offensive that would
flabbergast both Somoza and his American handlers. By
the spring of the following year, they had captured many of
the smaller rural cities and were closing in on the capital.
Somoza's supporters, who called themselves 
Somocistas
,
were beside themselves. Who would have ever believed
that "Tachito" Somoza, the self-described Latin from
Manhattan, could have gotten his ass whipped—and so
quickly—by a bunch of bearded radicals? More importantly,
how could the Americans have allowed such a thing to
happen? The CIA contingent at the U.S. embassy had been
assuring everyone that things were fine, that the rebels
weren't a real threat. It might get a little tough for the old boy
a couple years down the road, the CIA opined, but Somoza
would hang on until then.
But what Somoza and, apparently, the CIA didn't realize
was that the deal his family had struck with every U.S.
administration since Franklin Roosevelt's—a blood pact to
combat Communism together—would be dissolved by a
Georgia peanut farmer, Jimmy Carter. Instead of covering

===== PDF PAGE 77 =====
up or downplaying the brutality of Somoza's National Guard
as past administrations had done, some of Carter's people
went on a human rights crusade, complaining publicly that
the longtime dictator was just 
too
 dictatorial, and that his
Guardia
 was wantonly killing people. In 1977 some in
Congress had begun wondering why the U.S. government
continued putting up with Somoza and his ill-behaved
brood. Asked by the chairman of the House Appropriations
Subcommittee what harm would befall U.S. interests if
Congress were simply to cut off all aid to Nicaragua,
Undersecretary of State Lucy Benson replied, "I cannot
think of a single thing."
Somoza told his 
Guardia
 cohorts to ease up on the
rough stuff, and miraculously, complaints dropped off
sharply. Satisfied, the Carter administration backed off.
"President Somoza is known to have instructed the
National Guard on several occasions to eliminate abuses
which led to many charges of extra-legal killings and torture,
particularly in a northern rural area of insurgent activity,"
State Department official Sally Shelton proudly told
Congress in 1978. That "northern rural area" was the
stomping grounds of an especially efficient 
Guardia
general, Gustavo "El Tigre" Medina, who would later play
an important role in Danilo Blandón's life. Medina was
Somoza's top counterinsurgency adviser, a short, steely-
looking man hated and feared by the Sandinistas. They
consider him responsible for some of the revolution's worst
defeats.
The State Department reported in 1978 that, as far as
the human rights complaints coming out of Medina's theater
were concerned, "it appears that many of the allegations of
cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment during the course
of National Guard operations against the FSLN [the

===== PDF PAGE 78 =====
Sandinistas] were well-founded, but others were more
dubious." But when the Inter-American Commission on
Human Rights, a branch of the Organization of American
States (OAS), did its own inspection in late 1978, the Latin
American team, observers from other countries, saw things
in much more graphic terms than had the Americans.
They spoke to a mother who told of picking body parts
out of the dust to reassemble her five-year-old daughter
after the girl was hit by an air-to-ground missile. They talked
with survivors of "Operation Mop-Up," during which the
Guardia
 went in after a street battle and killed everyone
they found in the neighborhoods where the Sandinistas had
hidden, shooting "numerous people, in some cases
children, in their own homes or in front of the same and in
the presence of parents and siblings." They visited the jails,
reporting that in "all the jails visited, the prisoners alleged
that they rarely saw a doctor but that when they did see one
he was giving instructions as to the voltage of electricity to
be applied during the torture, or examining the tortured
persons to see if they could resist any more shocks."
In the northern mountains, the team concluded that of 338
peasants arrested between 1975 and 1977 by the Guardia,
321 of them "were never seen again and are presumed
dead." The missing peasants' farms were "appropriated by
members of the National Guard," the report said.
When the State Department went to Congress for more
money to support Somoza's troops, one congressman was
perplexed. "What possible interest does the United States
have in training the National Guard of Nicaragua?" the
lawmaker asked. "How does that help the American
citizen?"
The training programs "have provided us a useful
instrument for exercising political as well as professional

===== PDF PAGE 79 =====
influence over the Guard," the diplomat replied.
"I know," the congressman deadpanned. "We have been
doing that for the last twenty or thirty years."
Because the National Guard had such a tight lock on the
country, it was considered invincible by many of Somoza's
followers. And it might have been, had the Carter
administration backed up Somoza when the Sandinistas
were at his throat. But Carter's people never really figured
out what they wanted to do in Nicaragua, except to distance
themselves from Somoza's excesses.
When it became obvious that the Nicaraguan people
would no longer live under Somoza's rule, the American
plan for dealing with the crisis boiled down to this: Dump
Somoza and salvage the 
Guardia
. Apparently the
administration never realized that, to the Sandinistas and
most other Nicaraguans, the 
Guardia
 and Somoza were
like evil twins joined at the brain. One could not survive
without the other.
As Sandinista attacks mounted, Washington let Somoza
twist. Gradually, it dawned on Somoza's followers that the
Americans weren't riding to their rescue. By early June
1979 Managua's airport was jammed with people frantically
trying to catch a flight out before the rebels arrived.
"Hundreds of Nicaraguans struggle daily at Las Mercedes
International Airport to get a seat on one of the four
commercial flights," Panamanian radio reported on June 9.
"The situation here is such that if a donkey with wings
appeared, it would be beseiged by travelers," an airport
official said. "Departure from the country by land or by sea
is impossible because of the danger involved in driving on
the country's roads."
Yet Danilo Blandón stayed put, though he had every
reason to fear the vengeance of the Sandinistas, to whom

===== PDF PAGE 80 =====
the Blandón family represented all that was wrong with the
dictatorship. Blandón's father, Julio, owned the land on
which was built one of the worst slums in Managua—OPEN
#3—a low-rent district that began life as emergency
government housing after an earthquake leveled Managua
in 1972. Conditions there were so bad that the
neighborhood, now called Ciudad Sandino and numbering
more than 70,000 residents, was a constant source of new
recruits for the Sandinistas and a hotbed of anti-Somoza
activity. "It was called Via Misery," said economist Orlando
Murillo, an uncle of Blandón's wife. "People there lived like
the niggers in Los Angeles. But it made [Danilo's] father a
very rich man."
The Blandóns were social friends of the Somozas and
shared common business interests; Julio Blandón and
Somoza were two of the biggest landlords in Managua.
Blandón could trace his family's relationship with the
dictatorship back several generations. Blandón's mother
was from the Reyes family, which had an illustrious history
in the Somoza regime, and his grandfather was Colonel
Rigoberto Reyes, former minister of war and National
Guard commander under Somoza's father, Anastasio I.
Danilo's in-laws, the Murillos, were stalwarts of Somoza's
Liberal party. The Murillos had provided leaders for the
National Assembly for generations; Orlando Murillo's father
had been the assembly's president, and Chepita Blandón's
father had been Managua's mayor. Like the Blandóns, the
Murillos owned large tracts of the capital, including the
national telecommunications company headquarters, along
with cattle ranches and plantations in the hinterlands.
In some ways, Danilo Blandón had more to fear from the
Sandinistas than other 
Somocistas
. He was part of
Somoza's government, the director of wholesale markets,

===== PDF PAGE 81 =====
and ran a program designed to introduce a free-market
economy to Nicaragua's farmers. Blandón's job was to
award grants for demonstration projects to create central
distribution points for the country's agricultural riches,
places where farmers could come and sell their goods to
food wholesalers.
The $27 million program, Blandón said, was jointly
financed by the Nicaraguan and U.S. governments. It paid
for his master's degree in business administration from the
University of Colombia in Bogota.
Blandón and his wife held fast during the first jittery
weeks of June. Heavy fighting was breaking out in
Managua, where they lived; National Guardsmen and
Sandinista rebels were shooting each other in the streets.
By June 11 things were so far gone for Somoza that the
rebels had set up a headquarters in the eastern part of the
city, and shells from National Guard howitzers whistled over
downtown Managua daily to explode in the Sandinista-held
neighborhoods. Circling airplanes would drop 500-pound
bombs or flaming gasoline barrels into the area. On the
edge of town, a National Guard tank had rolled up outside
the 
La Prensa
 building and pumped round after round into
the shuttered offices of the paper that had been Somoza's
fiercest critic.
The CIA hastily revised its estimate of Somoza's staying
power on June 12, giving his government only a short time
to live. Somoza "fired" the 
Guardia
's general staff four days
later—many had fought the Sandinistas for decades—and
most of them ran to the Colombian embassy for asylum.
The exodus was on.
Somoza went on the radio June 19 to denounce the U.S.
government for its ingratitude for his long years of service.
"I want the U.S. people to help me, just as I helped them

===== PDF PAGE 82 =====
during thirty years of struggle against communism," he
announced. "We want the North Americans to return what
we contributed during the Cold War."
That same day the CIA shortened Somoza's life
expectancy once more. Now, the agency estimated, he had
little more than a week. Danilo Blandón decided he'd hung
around long enough. He had a three-year-old daughter, and
Chepita was pregnant with their second child. It was time to
go. Blandón fell in with a Red Cross convoy on its way to
the airport and put his wife and daughter on a plane for Los
Angeles, where Chepita had relatives. For some reason,
he did not accompany them. Instead Blandón and his older
brother, Julio Jr., boarded a flight for Miami, where Blandón
entered the United States on a tourist visa he'd been
issued several years earlier.
How he managed to do what many others could not—
namely, get four seats on jetliners bound for the States—is
not clear, and the Immigration and Naturalization Service
has refused to release any records of the Blandóns'
immigration, citing privacy reasons. Nor is it clear why he
first went to Miami.
Years later, Blandón would claim that he couldn't get a
ticket to L.A. for himself, and barely could afford the tickets
he got. He claimed that he sold a Sony color television for
$200 to pay for them, and landed in Miami with $100 to his
name. However, his wife's uncle, Orlando Murillo, says he
paid for the airline tickets and also gave the couple $5,000
before they left the country. If that was true, Blandón had
other reasons for choosing to spend his first few weeks in
Miami.
As he tells it, he stayed with a friend and "got a job
washing cars" until he could save enough for a plane ticket
to Los Angeles. He rejoined his family on the West Coast in

===== PDF PAGE 83 =====
early July, and by August he had landed a job as a
salesman at a used car lot in East Los Angeles, a heavily
Hispanic section of town. His employers were two huge
Nicaraguan brothers named Torres.
Blandón has said he knew one of the brothers, Edgar,
from his days in college in Monterrey, Mexico, where Edgar
was studying economics. Edgar's brother, Jacinto, was a
former U.S. Marine and had served in Vietnam. Together
they ran Torres Used Cars.
"They had a used car lot with only ten cars," Blandón
said. "They just give me a favor to be there and pay me
something because they know that I didn't have any money,
and then they gave me [a job] like a salesman in the
neighborhood."
But the Torres brothers weren't just car salesmen. They
were also major-league cocaine traffickers. Other dealers
called them "the Trees" because of their sequoia-like girth;
both brothers were estimated to be at least six-six. To the
cops they became known as "the Twin Towers." The Torres
brothers lived with two sisters who were big in their own
way: they were cousins of Pablo Escobar, a Colombian
cocaine kingpin who was one of the founders of the
Medellín cocaine cartel.
Escobar and his Colombian pals Jorge Ochoa and
Carlos Lehder were then firmly in control of the blossoming
Miami cocaine market, having wrested it from the Cuban-
Americans after a long-running cocaine war. The Cubans
had been using the city as a base for small-scale cocaine
smuggling since the late 1960s, but the Colombians had
bigger ideas. They intended to distribute mass quantities of
cocaine all across the United States in an organized and
businesslike fashion.
For three years, from 1976 to 1979, they fought the

===== PDF PAGE 84 =====
Cubans for supremacy in Miami, and the two sides killed
each other in droves. Afterward the Colombians turned the
city into a cocaine distribution hub, and it became the
official port of call for cocaine dealers of every stripe. Local
banks began swelling with drug profits.
Miami was convenient; the Colombians could blend in
with the large Hispanic population and move about the city
unnoticed. Escobar's associate Carlos Lehder set up shop
in the Bahamas, buying an island where the drug planes
coming out of Colombia could land, refuel, and wait for the
right moment to fly into the United States.
Lehder's transportation system worked well and gave the
Medellín cartel its first real toehold in America. Then he
began jetting to the West Coast to scope out a distribution
system for Los Angeles and the western United States.
When Blandón was working for the Torres brothers, he
says, they had not yet begun dealing cocaine. But it
apparently didn't take them long to get the hang of it; by
1982 they would be two of the more significant drug
dealers in Los Angeles.
Blandón insists he wasn't dealing drugs in 1979 either.
That was a couple years down the road. At the moment, he
had plenty to keep him busy. Chepita was getting bigger
with their second child every day, and he was struggling to
pay the bills. In August 1979 he started a new job with
another car lot, Rocha Used Cars, and was also hustling
rental cars at an L.A. hotel, according to his friend Frank
Vigil. And in his spare time Blandón was also trying to start
an army.
"I was the first," Blandón boasted. "Well—we—we
formed a group in L.A. to—a group of our people to go and
fight against the Sandinistas that we called FDN, 
Fuerza
Democratica Nicaragüense
 [Nicaraguan Democratic

===== PDF PAGE 85 =====
Force]. We were in charge. We were five people in charge
of it in L.A. We were in charge to get some money at that
time."
Blandón said his counterrevolutionary group came
together soon after he arrived in Los Angeles. At first it was
just a group of Nicaraguan exiles who got together
occasionally to bitch about the Sandinistas and help each
other find a toehold in their new country. They would "talk
about developments in Nicaragua," Blandón later told the
CIA. "Other members of this group also opposed Somoza
and the Sandinista regime. . .. [They] simply came together
to share common experiences and discuss their mutual
desires to see the Sandinista government out of
Nicaragua." They had "meetings every week, every 15
days, okay, since we got to L.A., in 1980–81. And we
raised money for the Contras." When it began, he said, his
group was not officially connected to anyone. It had no
formal structure, no officers, no membership requirements.
"You Americans have no idea what it's like to lose
everything and be thrown out of your own country,"
commented Jose Macario Estrada, an ex-judge who later
became Blandón's lawyer and business partner. "When you
are in exile, you become very close to other exiles."
At the end of 1979 Blandón applied for political asylum in
the United States, claiming that he would be killed by the
Communists if he returned to Nicaragua. And he listed his
membership in an "anti-Communist organization" as proof
that his life was worthless back home. If Blandón's
recollection is correct, his little L.A. group was one of the
first flickerings of an organized resistance movement
against the Sandinistas in the United States.
Acquaintances and former college classmates say Blandón
sometimes brags that he was one of the earliest founders

===== PDF PAGE 86 =====
of the FDN, which became the biggest and most famous of
the various Nicaraguan anti-Communist armies that would
later be called the Contras.
The FDN didn't officially come into existence until mid-
1981, so if Blandón was raising money for Contra fighters
as early as he says—in 1979–80—he was doing it on
behalf of the FDN's predecessor: the Legion of September
15, a violent band of ex-
Guardia
 men then based in
Guatemala. The legion, a terrorist organization started by
former Somoza bodyguards soon after Somoza's fall, was
to become the hard core of the FDN after the CIA merged it
into two smaller resistance groups in August 1981.
Blandón's Contra fund-raising efforts bore little fruit at
first. "At the beginning, we started doing some parties, you
know, some—how do you call—some activities in the park,
until 1980 and '81," he said. "We have to have some rallies
or whatever." The fund-raisers were disappointing, though,
bringing in only "a few thousands or something." An
acquaintance reported that Blandón also hawked copies of
Somoza's bitter memoirs, 
Nicaragua Betrayed
, and helped
put out an anti-Sandinista newsletter that was printed at a
little shop owned by a sympathetic Nicaraguan.
About the same time that Blandón and his compatriots
began their fund-raising efforts in L.A., Somoza's cousin,
Luis Pallais Debayle, began making the rounds of the
various exile groups in the United States and Central
America to see if anyone was interested in helping
Somoza fight his way back into power.
Pallais contacted his cousin in Paraguay, and the ex-
dictator promised to kick in $1 million to start a resistance
movement. It was a promise he never kept. On September
17, 1980, Argentine revolutionaries blasted a rocket-
propelled grenade and a hail of M-16 fire into Somoza's

===== PDF PAGE 87 =====
Mercedes-Benz limo, killing Somoza and scattering pieces
of him and his German automobile across a block of
downtown Asunción.
Another visit Pallais made, with happier results, was to
former National Guard colonel Enrique Bermúdez, to see if
Bermúdez would be willing to lead a resistance force if one
could be put together. Bermúdez was a logical choice to be
the Contras' military commander. Of all the former officers
of Somoza's National Guard, he probably had the best
contacts with the U.S. military and intelligence
communities. Convincing the Americans to back them was
going to be critical if the Contras were ever to get off the
ground. And Bermúdez was a leader who was very
palatable to the Americans. He was a known quantity.
"He fit the profile," one U.S. official later told journalist
Sam Dillon. "He was malleable, controllable, docile."
In 1965 Bermúdez had been the deputy commander of
an infantry company Somoza sent to support a U.S.-led
invasion of the Dominican Republic, an excursion to put
down a leftist political movement. It was another one of
those favors Somoza had done over the years to help his
American friends stamp out any hint of communism in Latin
America.
Bermúdez had been in the United States since 1975,
first as a student attending courses on subversion and
counterinsurgency at the Inter-American Defense College
in Washington and later as the Nicaraguan government's
liaison to the American military. The Americans thought so
highly of him that he was one of six 
Guardia
 officers they
recommended to head the National Guard during the final
days of the Somoza regime, in a last-minute public
relations ploy by the Carter administration to change the
Guardia
's murderous image and take some of the wind out

===== PDF PAGE 88 =====
of the Sandinistas' sails before their final offensive.
The State Department considered Bermúdez a safe
choice; he had spent most of the revolution in Washington
and, the reasoning went, couldn't be held responsible for
any of the 
Guardia
's human rights violations—the tortures,
the disappearances, the aerial bombardments of civilian
neighborhoods. Somoza picked someone else, however,
and Bermúdez rode out the remainder of the civil war from
the safety of Embassy Row in Washington. When the
Somoza government collapsed, Bermúdez began a new
career as a truck driver, delivering 
Newsweek
 magazines.
He would not toil long at such a menial task. Soon after
the uplifting visit from Somoza's cousin, Bermúdez got a
call from Major General Charles E. Boyd, a top U.S. Air
Force official, who invited Bermúdez to the Pentagon to
kick some ideas around. There, after sounding out
Bermúdez on the idea of running a rebel force to harass the
Sandinistas, Boyd told him he had a friend at the CIA who
was interested in speaking with him. By mid-1980
Bermúdez had packed his family and his belongings and
left Washington behind, moving to a rented house in Miami.
According to one account, Bermúdez was then on the CIA's
payroll.
He began traveling widely, gauging the sentiment of
vanquished National Guardsmen hiding in the United
States and Central America and reporting his findings to
his CIA handlers. Those who wondered how Bermúdez
could afford his travels when he was jobless were told he
was living off the profits from the sale of his home in
Washington.
According to Boyd, the CIA "put Bermúdez in touch" with
the Legion of September 15 in Guatemala. Soon
Bermúdez would move there and become the legion's

===== PDF PAGE 89 =====
commander.
It was a motley crew, if there ever was one. Made up
mostly of ex-
Guardia
 officers who escaped from Nicaragua
at the end of the war, the legionaires had a safe house in
Guatemala City and were training on a farm near the
Honduran border called Detachment 101. Coincidentally,
the farm was located in the same small town, Esquipulas,
that had served as the headquarters for the CIA-backed
group that overthrew the Guatemalan government in 1954.
Since there was no war for them to fight—yet—the legion
kept in shape by hiring itself out to perform a variety of
warlike deeds for others. The CIA acknowledged in 1998
that the Legion "to some extent engaged in kidnapping,
extortion, and robbery to fund its operations" and also
"engaged in the bombing of Nicaraguan civilian airliners
and airliner hijackings as methods of attacking the
Sandinista government." According to a June 1981 cable
to CIA headquarters, the Legion's commanders "see
themselves as being forced to stoop to criminal activities in
order to feed and clothe their cadre."
That the CIA would know this band of terrorists so well
that it would know the thinking of its commanders is not a
surprise. Much of the Legion's leadership had worked with
or for the Agency during their previous lives as Somoza's
secret agents, rooting out dissidents for the dictator's
Office of National Security, which was advised by the CIA.
One of the earliest published accounts of the Legion's
existence notes that it was "run by former members of
Somoza's intelligence service." In other words, the men of
the CIA and the men of the Legion were kindred spirits—
anti-Communist spooks—and this mutual affection would
come to serve the Legion well after the CIA took over the
day-to-day operations of the Contras.

===== PDF PAGE 90 =====
Still, the CIA's matter-of-fact description of the Legion's
criminal history is too kind. Its Inspector General never
mentioned the Legion's most horrific deed: the March 1980
assassination of the Roman Catholic archbishop of San
Salvador, Oscar Romero, who was shot through the heart
as he held Mass. Romero had the bad luck to interest
himself in the fate of some parishioners who had been
"disappeared" by the infamous Salvadoran death squads.
The archbishop had been warned several times to butt out,
but he hadn't taken the hint.
Records seized from a right-wing Salvadoran politician
suspected of orchestrating Romero's murder, Roberto
D'Aubuisson, revealed that D'Aubuisson had gone to
Guatemala three days after Romero's murder and made
two "contributions to Nicaraguans," one for $40,000 and
one for $80,000. Written underneath these amounts was
the name and telephone number of Colonel Ricardo Lau, a
former intelligence and security officer for the 
Guardia
 who
was running the Legion of September 15 prior to
Bermúdez's appointment as commander.
Lau, who was never charged in connection with
Romero's murder, would go on to become Enrique
Bermúdez's right-hand man in the Contra organization. The
CIA has admitted that during 1981–82 it was receiving
regular reports that Lau and seven other Legion
commanders were "involved in criminal activities."
Coincidentally, that's what Danilo Blandón was doing for
the Contras in Los Angeles. His little exile group was
moving up in the world, and had switched from cocktail
parties to car theft and loan fraud. They had also become
an official part of the CIA's new Contra army, the 
Fuerza
Democratica Nicaragüense—
 the FDN.
In 1981 CIA agent Enrique Bermúdez paid Blandón's

===== PDF PAGE 91 =====
little group in L.A. a visit. "Bermúdez came to a meeting of
the group to give a pep talk and to ask that the group keep
the idea of a free and democratic Nicaragua alive by
publicizing the Contra cause in the United States," Blandón
told CIA inspectors. The colonel asked the group "to adopt
the colors and the flag of the FDN," and, after that, the CIA
inspectors wrote, "Blandón and other member of the group
called themselves FDN and used the FDN's colors, flag
and letterhead."
They also got an assignment, Blandón testified. "It came,
you know, that we had to provide some cars and we got
involved in another thing to get some money." By then
Blandón had been working in L.A. long enough to establish
a credit history, so he applied for an auto loan.
"My thinking was to get back to Nicaragua, never to stay
in the States, so I used my car salesman job to get a [loan]
application, to make an application and to get a car without
—just giving them the down payment—and sending it to the
Contra revolution in Honduras," Blandón said. "We were
the first people, the first group that sent a pickup truck to the
Contra revolution in Honduras." (In the spring of 1981 the
Legion of September 15 moved its operations from
Guatemala to a new headquarters in Honduras, where it
would remain for the rest of the war.)
Blandón said the payments on the cars they sent to the
Contras were to be picked up by "the organization. . .and
they didn't pay the monthly payments, so I lost my credit. But
at that time I didn't care because they [the Contras] were
my idea, my cause."

===== PDF PAGE 92 =====
"The brotherhood of military minds"
D
anilo Blandón says he never intended to become a
cocaine trafficker when he arrived in L.A. in 1979. He
became a drug dealer out of patriotism. When the bugle
sounded and the call to serve came, Blandón was hustling
used sheet metal at H&L Auto Exchange in Los Angeles—
an honest guy making an honest two thousand bucks a
month. Next thing you know, he was selling cocaine instead
of Chevys.
As Blandón tells the story, his transformation occurred
shortly after getting a call from a friend from Miami, an old
college classmate named Donald Barrios. Barrios told
Blandón that someone wanted to meet with him, a man who
would be flying into L.A. very soon. The passenger's name
was Norwin Meneses. Blandón was to meet him at the
airport and listen to what Meneses had to say.
"He had to talk to me about something," Blandón said.
For most Nicaraguans that would have come as decidedly
unwelcome news. Meneses had a nasty reputation in his
homeland. Blandón had heard him referred to as "El
Padrino" (The Godfather) and he'd heard rumors of drug
trafficking. A 1982 FBI report said Meneses "had a
reputation as a hit man who had killed in Nicaragua."
Barrios didn't say why he wanted Blandón to meet with
the gangster, but Blandón figured it had to do with the
Contras, "because he [Barrios] was in the Contra—in the
Contra revolution organization."
People who know Barrios describe him as a wealthy
former insurance broker and financier from Managua who
emigrated to the States long before the revolution and
married an American woman. They say Barrios is a relative

===== PDF PAGE 93 =====
of former Nicaraguan president Violeta Barrios de
Chamorro, widow of the crusading journalist Pedro Joaquin
Chamorro, whose 1978 murder sparked the uprising that
eventually toppled Somoza. Norwin Meneses, records
show, was a partner of Violeta Chamorro in a finance
company before the revolution.
After the Sandinista takeover, Donald Barrios reportedly
became a financial angel to dispossessed Somocistas,
helping them settle in Miami and find jobs. He also became
business partners with some of them, including at least two
members of the dictator's general staff and the owner of the
largest pharmaceutical company in Nicaragua.
At the time he called Blandón in Los Angeles, Barrios
was partners with Somoza's old guerrilla hunter, Gustavo
"El Tigre" Medina, the counterinsurgency expert who'd
ravaged the northern mountains rooting out Communist
sympathizers. Medina was head of G-4—the officer in
charge of supplies—for the National Guard at the end of the
war, and he fled Managua with Somoza on the morning his
regime ended. "I was in the plane right behind his," Medina
said. Because of his activities during the war, Medina is
among the minority of Nicaraguans who have not gone
home.
Medina and Barrios started a restaurant and an
investment company in Miami, records show. Other
partners included former colonel Aurelio Somarriba, head
of G-1 for the 
Guardia
, Somoza's chief administrative
officer; and Enrique "Cuco" Sanchez, a member of a
wealthy Nicaraguan family that would play a key role in the
founding of the Contras.
Blandón's hunch about Meneses and the Contras turned
out to be correct. The meeting, he said, was "to start the
movement, the Contra revolution."

===== PDF PAGE 94 =====
After picking his passenger up at the airport, Blandón
said, the wiry Meneses "started telling me that we had to do
some money and to send [it] to Honduras." Later, at a
restaurant, Meneses explained his idea more fully: "He told
me to make some drug business in L.A. for raise money to
the Contra, and we started that way."
Blandón was shocked by the suggestion at first, he said.
"I didn't agree at that time, because I had to think."
Joining up with a man like Norwin Meneses would be
agreeing to work for a killer—a career criminal. Meneses's
nickname, "El Perico," is a Spanish pun, and a telling one.
The word usually means "parakeet," and given Meneses's
quick, dark eyes and small beakish face, it's easy to see
why such a moniker would stick. But in Argentinian slang
the word means "cocaine." And to cops in Central America
from the 1970s to the 1990s, cocaine often meant
Meneses.
The CIA, in a recently declassified 1986 cable,
described Meneses as "the kingpin of narcotics traffickers
in Nicaragua prior to the fall of Somoza." The agency would
later describe him as the Cali cartel's representative in
Nicaragua, but Norwin wasn't finicky. He'd sell cocaine for
anyone.
In fact, he'd been selling cocaine since before there were
any cartels. In the small world of international cocaine
smuggling, Norwin Meneses was a pioneer.
Back when Medellín kingpin Carlos Lehder was still just a
car thief sitting in a cell at the Danbury, Connecticut, federal
prison, Meneses was making multikilo deals directly with
Peruvian cocaine manufacturers. According to Nicaraguan
police officials, Meneses's relationship with the drug lords
of Colombia began during the marijuana era of the early
1970s, and the story they tell of his first big deal is

===== PDF PAGE 95 =====
illustrative of Meneses's modus operandi.
Roger Mayorga is a former Sandinista intelligence
officer who also headed up investigations for the
Nicaraguan National Police narcotics unit. Mayorga says
the drug kingpin's association with the Colombians began
after an airplane full of marijuana made an emergency
landing at a ranch owned by one of the Somozas. The
Managua police were called, and they arrested the
Colombian pilots, seized the airplane, and confiscated its
load of prime weed.
In Somoza's Nicaragua, the Managua police department
was a branch of the National Guard. And the 
Guardia
officer who commanded the Managua police for many
years was Colonel Edmundo Meneses Cantarero—
Norwin's brother. Colonel Meneses came to an
understanding with the Colombians who owned the aircraft.
Mayorga said the pilots and the airplane were allowed to
leave, but the load of marijuana remained behind as
"evidence." Somehow the evidence got turned over to
brother Norwin, and a drug kingpin was born.
The role played by the Nicaraguan National Guard in
creating Meneses's criminal empire can't be overstated.
The 
Guardia
, which one researcher called "one of the most
totally corrupt military establishments in the world,"
permeated the Meneses family. In addition to Edmundo,
another brother, Brigadier General Fermin Meneses,
commanded the 
Guardia
 garrison in the city of Masaya, a
commercial and cultural center not far from Managua. The
family's long ties with the 
Guardia
 and its history of staunch
anticommunism help explain Norwin's later activities on
behalf of the Contras.
"The whole [Meneses] family was anti-Sandinista to the
death," the Nicaraguan newsmagazine 
El Semanario

===== PDF PAGE 96 =====
reported in 1996. "It is a hate that seems almost genetic,
ancestral."
The 
Guardia
 wasn't just an army; it had its hands in
everything. If the CIA, the FBI, the DEA, the IRS, the army,
the air force, the Marine Corps, the National Guard, the
Coast Guard, Customs, Immigration, and the Postal
Service were all rolled into one, it would begin to approach
Somoza's National Guard in its power over the everyday
lives of the average citizen. "Nicaragua is one of the few
countries we are aware of in which all arms shipments that
go into the country, whether they are sporting goods or of
whatever kind, have to be received by the National Guard,"
State Department official Sally Shelton told Congress in
1978. "We have been shipping hunting equipment, for
example. They are in effect purchased by the National
Guard and then resold in retail outlets."
"Say that again?" one stunned congressman asked.
"The National Guard is a wholesaler for hunting
ammunition?"
"They are passed through the National Guard and sold in
retail outlets," Shelton repeated. "It is more an accounting
procedure than anything else."
According to the hearing transcript, "general laughter"
ensued.
But the pervasive corruption of the 
Guardia
 was no
laughing matter to Nicaraguans. "Gambling, alcoholism,
drugs, prostitution and other vices are protected and
exploited by the very persons who have the obligation to
combat them," Nicaragua's Roman Catholic bishops
complained in a 1978 pastoral letter to Somoza.
"Widespread corruption continues unchecked and public
scandals further undermine the confidence and morale of
the people."

===== PDF PAGE 97 =====
To many the 
Guardia
 was little different than the Mafia.
And if Somoza was its godfather, the Meneses brothers
were his capos. Somoza was closest to Edmundo, known
as Mundo, who was one of his favorite generals. In the
1960s Mundo—who'd been trained in irregular warfare and
anticommunism at the U.S. Army's School of the Americas
in Panama—conducted a series of bloody operations
against Sandinista rebels near the town of Pancasan in
northern Nicaragua. Those campaigns killed several key
Sandinistas and crippled the guerrilla movement for years.
Later Somoza gave Mundo the 
Guardia
's choicest plum,
control of the Managua police, a perch from which a man
so inclined could dip his beak into every imaginable scam.
For the unscrupulous, the profit potential was unlimited.
"You have to realize that you did a lot of things in your
career in the 
Guardia
 and you progressed up through the
ranks so you might have been a lot of things," explained
former Somoza secretary Juan C. Wong. "Now, Police
Chief, that's one of the best. That's a nice job. That was the
last job he [Edmundo] had in his military career. Then he
retired and went into the diplomatic corps."
Under Mundo's watchful eye, Managua became an open
city for brother Norwin, who by the late 1970s owned
discotheques—the Frisco Disco and the VIP Club, among
others—drive-in whorehouses with waterbeds and porno
tapes, and a thriving drug business.
A "highly reliable" FBI informant told Justice Department
inspectors that Meneses used his influence within the
Somoza regime to smuggle cocaine from Colombia to the
U.S. and "had even used a Nicaraguan Air Force plane
once for such a shipment."
"Norwin ran all the rackets for the 
Guardia
," said
Mayorga. "And remember, his brother was the chief of

===== PDF PAGE 98 =====
police. No one could do anything."
San Francisco cocaine trafficker Rafael Cornejo, who
has worked for the Meneses family since the 1970s, told of
prerevolution jaunts down to Managua where he would
spend weekends partying with the Meneses brothers.
"You'd walk down the street with Mundo, and everyone
would salute you," Cornejo recalled with a smile. "We went
riding around in the Jeeps, you know, guys with big guns
everywhere around us. It was a trip."
Though never a member of the 
Guardia
, Norwin did his
part for the Somoza regime. In his teens and twenties,
acquaintances said, he worked as an undercover informant
for the Office of National Security (ONS), Somoza's
plainclothes secret police, which rooted out subversives
and political dissidents. Before going to Guatemala to start
up the Legion of September 15, Colonel Ricardo Lau spent
much of his career with the ONS and was allegedly one of
its chief torturers.
Former Managua police chief Rene Vivas, an early
member of the Sandinista movement, said Norwin
Meneses infiltrated pro-Communist groups for the ONS,
sometimes posing as a news photographer, other times as
the secretly disaffected son of a powerful Somocista family.
In a magazine interview in 1996, Meneses told of starting
up an armed guerrilla group to support Fidel Castro's
takeover of Cuba but insisted that he was never a
Communist.
With Mundo and the National Guard as his protectors,
Norwin appears to have literally gotten away with murder. In
the spring of 1977 Norwin found himself under investigation
by the chief inspector of the Nicaraguan Customs
Department, a particularly tenacious sleuth named Oskar
Reyes Zelaya. Inspector Reyes and the FBI believed

===== PDF PAGE 99 =====
Norwin was running a massive car theft ring, which was
using the National Guard to "import" stolen American cars
into Nicaragua and then selling them to various potentates
of the Somoza government. Importing cars through the
Guardia
 allowed the buyer to evade the hefty tariffs the
Nicaraguan government had placed on imports.
According to press reports, Norwin first tried to get the
annoying inspector off his tail by setting him up with an
attractive woman in a Managua hotel room. The woman,
Pamela Cestoni, then went to the police, claiming that
Inspector Reyes had raped her. When the investigation
revealed that Cestoni was a friend of Norwin's, Reyes was
cleared, and "the sexual maneuver was used only to
exacerbate the prosecution against Norwin," 
La Prensa
reported.
On the evening of June 2, 1977, the chief inspector got a
phone call at his home, allegedly from a man who wanted to
give him a payoff in order to drop the Meneses
investigation. Dressed in a bathrobe and flip-flops, Reyes
hopped into his Jeep Cherokee and drove to an alley
behind a nearby supermarket, where the man was waiting
to meet him. Whoever it was in that alley shot Reyes three
times in the stomach and throat. But he didn't complete the
job. Bleeding profusely, the inspector was taken to the
emergency room of the Orient Hospital in Managua. As he
lay writhing on a cot, the dying Reyes spotted his friend
Pablo Zamora Moller, the chief investigator for the
Managua police department, standing nearby.
"Pablo, protect me!" Reyes cried. "This is Norwin!
Norwin Meneses sent away to kill me!" Reyes died a short
time later.
Norwin was arrested and jailed on suspicion of murder.
But after a "rigorous and exhaustive" investigation ordered

===== PDF PAGE 100 =====
by brother Edmundo, Norwin was cleared of any
involvement and released. Meneses claimed he was at a
motel when the killing happened, and both Rafael Cornejo,
one of his San Francisco-based cocaine traffickers, and
his nephew Jaime Meneses, who also was dealing cocaine
in the Bay Area, backed up the story, testifying that Norwin
was with them.
Reyes' murder would never be solved, but the Justice
Department would later receive compelling evidence that
Meneses was behind it, just as the dying inspector had
claimed. In 1986, federal prosecutors in San Francisco
debriefed Edmundo Meneses' son, Jairo, who informed
them that "during the Somoza regime, Norwin Meneses
smuggled weapons, silencers, and video equipment into
Nicaragua, which he exchanged for money or narcotics.
The operation was discovered by Oscar Reyes, who was a
high-ranking customs official under Somoza. Norwin then
arranged for Reyes' assassination."
After the publicity died down, Norwin calmly resumed his
smuggling ventures, but the FBI kept its eye on him. As
Somoza's government teetered, the Bureau laid plans to
keep Norwin from ever coming to the U.S. In 1979, the FBI
office in Mexico City asked that Meneses be included in the
Bureau's "top thief" program and requested an arrest
warrant "if for no other reason than to preclude him from
entering the United States." The FBI also asked for a hold
on his immigration status so he could be questioned if he
tried to cross the border. But the U.S. Attorney's office in
San Francisco, citing Norwin's "political connections" in
Nicaragua, refused to do either—and it would not be the
last time that office would exhibit such an odd reluctance to
battle the Meneses crime family.
One longtime Contra supporter said Norwin's arrest and

===== PDF PAGE 101 =====
the subsequent scandal that enveloped Edmundo so upset
Somoza that it may have triggered his heart attack in July
1977, after which he went off to the United States to
recuperate. Edmundo soon left the police department, was
promoted to brigadier general, and retired from the
National Guard. Somoza then sent him off to Guatemala to
be Nicaragua's ambassador.
It would be Edmundo's last assignment for Tachito.
On September 16, 1978, Ambassador Meneses was
machine-gunned in Espana Park in Guatemala City,
catching three bullets in his back. Two days later, as he
clung to life in the Guatemala City Medical Center, a
revolutionary group, the People's Guerrilla Army (EGP),
claimed credit for the attempted assassination.
The EGP's communique described Meneses as being
far more than a diplomat. According to the guerrillas, he
was overseeing anti-Communist counterinsurgency
operations all over Central America. "Meneses Cantarero
enjoyed special privileges amongst Guatemala's
authorities and army commanders," the guerrillas declared.
"Exploiting his ambassadorial position in Guatemala as a
smokescreen, he actually discharged the duties of
coordinator between the Guatemalan army and the
Nicaraguan National Guard, and also between Somoza
and Guatemala's reactionary government. He coordinated
political repression for all of Central America and the
operations undertaken by the governments of this area
against popular revolutionary movements." The EGP
claimed that the ambassador was gunned down to "show
solidarity with the struggle of the Sandinist National
Liberation Front."
"The Sandinistas never forgave my brother Edmundo for
the guerrillas of Pancasan," Santiago Meneses told 
El

===== PDF PAGE 102 =====
Semanario
 in 1996.
Edmundo Meneses lingered for another fifteen days
before succumbing to his wounds. At his funeral, Somoza
hailed him as a martyr in the worldwide struggle against
communism.
The nature of Edmundo Meneses's relationship with the
U.S. government is not clear. The CIA has refused to
disclose any information about him, on grounds of national
security. The State Department, incredibly, has claimed it
can find no records that even mention his name, a stunning
admission given Meneses's stature in the Somoza
government—its chief law enforcement officer and
ambassador to Guatemala.
In light of Edmundo's murder, Norwin figured the
Sandinistas probably had the same fate in mind for him,
and he left Nicaragua in early June 1979. He caught a flight
to El Salvador, went to Ecuador for a while, then to Costa
Rica—where he had businesses and at least six ranches—
before finally emigrating to the United States in early 1980
and applying for political asylum. Meneses had homes in
Florida and Alabama, he said, but spent most of his time in
San Francisco, where he had begun buying property in
1978.
After the Sandinistas marched into Managua, the Bay
Area—like Miami, Houston, and Los Angeles—saw a large
influx of Nicaraguans who had supported Somoza. Not
surprisingly, Contra support groups quickly popped up in
those cities, and Meneses played a key role in getting the
San Francisco organization going. "Even before the term
'Contra' was being used. . .there were meetings of 'anti-
Sandinistas' at Meneses' house, which were attended by
politicians, Somocistas, and other exiles interested in
starting a counter-revolutionary movement," a DEA

===== PDF PAGE 103 =====
informant who knew Meneses told the Justice Department
in 1997. Meneses posed as a successful businessman,
purchasing a used car lot, a couple of commercial
buildings, a travel agency, and a restaurant. He zipped
around town in a gray Jaguar sedan. His nephews bought
bars and nightclubs. Norwin purchased two houses in
Pacifica, a small town just down the coast from San
Francisco, one for himself and the other for his brother
Ernesto.
He spent much time in San Francisco's Mission District,
working out of a travel agency office owned by nephew
Jaime Meneses. The Mission is a heavily Hispanic section
of town, with a history of hospitality to Central American
revolutionaries of all stripes. According to Roberto Vargas,
a San Franciscan who later became the Sandinistas'
ambassador to China, the Mission was home to several of
the Sandinistas' future commandantes, who practiced their
sharpshooting skills at rod and gun clubs down the coast.
Meneses's ability to freely travel in and out of the United
States, buying properties, starting businesses, and
applying for political asylum—all under his own name—
speaks volumes about his lack of concern about attracting
the attention of American law enforcement officials. "I even
drove my own cars, registered in my name!" he boasted.
How someone with Meneses' record was ever allowed
into the United States in the first place is still a mystery, and
one that is likely never to be solved. The Justice
Department's Inspector General tried in 1997 to figure out
how Meneses was able "to come and go from the United
States as frequently as he did" but found huge gaps in his
immigration files. The IG didn't even try to explain how
Meneses was able to obtain visas from U.S. Embassies
while he was under active DEA and FBI investigation. It's

===== PDF PAGE 104 =====
entirely possible, though, that Uncle Sam was repaying
some IOUs.
Meneses told the Justice Department he met with CIA
agents shortly after the Sandinista takeover of Nicaragua to
teach them how to cross his country's borders undetected,
a claim that makes a certain amount of sense given
Meneses' considerable expertise in that area. By 1986,
Meneses was boasting that he had U.S. government
agents escorting him across America's borders, a claim
that—amazingly enough—was true, as we shall see.
The cocaine kingpin's easy access to U.S. shores
becomes even more disconcerting when one considers just
how much the federal government knew about him by then.
He'd been turning up in law enforcement files with some
regularity for nearly 20 years. In 1968 he was suspected of
murdering a money changer in Managua and Nicaraguan
authorities asked the CIA and FBI to search for him in San
Francisco, where they assumed he'd fled. During their
unsuccessful search, federal agents found records of other
crimes Norwin had committed in San Francisco in the early
1960s: statutory rape, shoplifting, and "misuse of slot
machines."
Court records show that the DEA first picked up word
that Norwin was a drug dealer in 1974. By December 1976
its office in Costa Rica had identified him as a cocaine
"source of supply" based in Managua.
The FBI became aware in April 1978 that Norwin and his
brother Ernesto "were smuggling 20 kilos of cocaine at a
time into the United States" and identified Norwin's
nephew, Jaime Meneses, as their San Francisco
distributor. The DEA learned that Meneses was dealing
cocaine in Miami as well, bringing it into the country aboard
commercial airliners.

===== PDF PAGE 105 =====
The following year, the New Orleans DEA determined
that Meneses was responsible for smuggling cocaine into
that city also. The DEA's "Operation Alligator," as the
sweep was called, resulted in the indictment of "numerous
persons for smuggling cocaine. It was determined that
Norwin Meneses was a source of supply for this group."
One of the men arrested in that DEA operation, Manuel
Porro, would end up in Guatemala as a commander of the
Legion of September 15 Contra army, and the CIA would
link him repeatedly to criminal activities there. Nonetheless,
he would go on to serve as a top aide to CIA agent Adolfo
Calero, the political leader of the Contras, and would
handle some of Calero's Caribbean banking activities.
By the fall of 1981, the time Blandón says Meneses
recruited him to sell dope for the Contras, the DEA had
Meneses under active investigation for cocaine trafficking
and possible gun running. "The Drug Enforcement
Administration has developed information over the past
several years that the Meneses Family has been involved in
the smuggling and distribution of cocaine in the San
Francisco Bay Area," stated a November 1981 affidavit by
DEA agent Sandra Smith.
Smith, who was one of the DEA's first female agents in
San Francisco, recalled that her investigation of the
Meneses family was "the only thing that I ever worked, in all
the time I worked there, that I thought was really big. . .. In
this business, if you have people coming in from Nicaragua
bringing in cocaine and the rumor was they were taking
guns back. . .that's sort of an interesting combination."
Starting in the late 1970s, Smith said, she began
gathering string on the Meneses family, "putting together
the comings and goings." She said Meneses was living in
"a gorgeous house" in Burlingame, a ritzy suburb of San

===== PDF PAGE 106 =====
Francisco. Periodically, she and a Customs agent would
stake out the house, sitting in the parking lot of a nearby
elementary school and jotting down license numbers of
cars seen pulling up Meneses's thickly treed drive. "We
really didn't have anybody on the inside," she said. "That
was part of the problem."
The local San Francisco police were also running across
various and sundry Meneseses, often in the company of
large quantities of cocaine. Omar Meneses, another
nephew, was arrested for cocaine sales at a bar in the
Mission owned by nephew Jaime in June 1980. A month
later nephew Roger Meneses was arrested with twenty
pounds of cocaine and more than $8,800. That same
month, Omar got busted again with a quarter pound of
cocaine.
By mid-1981 Smith had put together enough information
from her investigation and from the DEA's files to sketch
out a fairly detailed portrait of a family steeped in drug
trafficking. The Nicaraguan, it appeared, had cocaine
coming in from everywhere. "Meneses had an endless
supply of dope, from what I could see."
In June 1981, Smith got a break in her on-again, off-
again investigation.
Detective Joseph Lee of the Baldwin Park police in
southern California got a tip that a cocaine dealer in West
Covina, a Nicaraguan named Julio Bermúdez (no relation
to Enrique Bermúdez), was making two trips a month to
San Francisco, "where he contacts a large cocaine
smuggling organization headed by Norwin Meneses." The
informant told Lee that Bermúdez was bringing down
between fourteen and twenty pounds of cocaine on each
trip. Another informant reported that Bermúdez called San
Francisco and "places his order by telephone" before each

===== PDF PAGE 107 =====
trip.
The police subpoenaed Bermúdez's telephone records
for the previous three months, and sure enough, they found
fifty-one long-distance calls from Bermúdez's phone to a
number in Daly City, a working-class suburb south of San
Francisco. The number belonged to Norwin's nephew,
Jairo Meneses.
It was enough for the Baldwin Park cops, along with
members of the L.A. County Sheriff's Department and the
U.S. Customs Service, to put a tail on Bermúdez and stake
out his house at 1128 Greendale Street.
On November 12, 1981, Bermúdez left the house with a
small beige suitcase and drove off in a 1972 Buick. The
cops followed, observing him stop to pick up another man,
Jose Herrera, before heading to the L.A. airport. The duo
bought two one-way tickets to San Francisco on PSA Flight
425 and got there at 3:40 
P.M.
, when DEA agent Smith
picked up the surveillance.
Smith watched as the two traffickers were met outside
the terminal by an unidentified Latino man driving a gold
1979 Toyota, a car registered to Herrera, one of the
traffickers. They drove to a small house in Daly City, and
the three men went inside. After a bit Bermúdez came out,
opened the trunk, and got out the beige suitcase, which he
placed behind the driver's seat; then he drove off.
Bermúdez managed to shake his tail in the traffic. Thirty-
five minutes later, though, the cops spotted the car in
another part of Daly City, parked outside Jairo Meneses's
house. Bermúdez came out about two hours later and
drove back to the first Daly City house.
The sequence of events provided the police with enough
evidence to get a search warrant and they hit Bermúdez's
house in West Covina two days later, catching the dealer

===== PDF PAGE 108 =====
with three pounds of cocaine—an enormous amount for the
times—which Bermúdez promptly admitted he'd bought
from Norwin Meneses. They also found $17,000 and a drug
ledger bearing the entry: "11–11–81—$90,000 to Jairo."
Bermúdez was hustled off to jail and Smith got a warrant for
Jairo Meneses' house.
On November 16 the police hit Jairo's place and caught
him with drugs and drug paraphernalia. They found a
plastic bag containing Thai stick, a potent form of grass, an
envelope containing $9,000, an O'Haus triple-beam scale
—the kind favored by drug dealers—a 12-gauge shotgun, a
.22-caliber pistol, and "miscellaneous pictures, address
books, photographs and passports."
Convinced that the family was a major trafficking
organization, Smith said she asked her supervisor if she
could work the case full-time. The answer was not
encouraging. "He said, 'Well, that sounds like a good idea.
Who would run it?'" Smith recalled, laughing. "I think it was
just that, being a female, my credibility was somewhat in
question."
The investigation soon fell apart. Julio Bermúdez was
released on bail and promptly skipped the country, never to
be seen again. Once again, the San Francisco U.S.
Attorney's office declined to pursue a case against Norwin
or his nephew and the file was closed.
Smith said she never worked the Meneses family again.
"They had me assigned to other things, like the Hell's
Angels case, and I really didn't have enough time," she
said. "This was a pretty big case to me, and I think had I
been given free rein and some assistance and some time
to do it, I think I could have really done something." But, she
said, "I'm not so sure the DEA management took it
seriously enough to allow me the time and the assistance I

===== PDF PAGE 109 =====
would have needed." She quit the DEA three years later.
Norwin Meneses said he was well aware that the DEA
was after him in 1981, and came close to catching him
during its investigation of Julio Bermúdez. He was in love
with Bermúdez's sister, Patricia, at the time, and was often
at the house in West Covina. The DEA, in fact, described
Norwin as the owner of the three pounds of cocaine found
with Bermúdez.
But the arrests of one of his distributors and his nephews
didn't slow him down a bit. According to Blandón, the
Meneses organization moved 900 kilos of cocaine—
almost a ton—into the United States in 1981, about $54
million worth at wholesale prices.
Blandón accepted Meneses's pitch to become a cocaine
salesman for the Contras, he said, after he and the drug
kingpin took a trip down to Honduras for another "pep talk"
from CIA agent Enrique Bermúdez. At a Contra camp near
the Nicaraguan border, Bermúdez "told them of the trouble
the FDN was having in raising funds and obtaining
equipment," and he exhorted them to raise money for the
counterrevolution. "He was in charge, okay, how to raise
money in California."
Meneses confirmed Blandón's account of the meeting
with the CIA agent, who was an old friend of the Meneses
family. "I've known him since he was a lieutenant," Meneses
said, adding that his brother Edmundo had been friends
with Enrique Bermúdez even longer: "They'd known each
other since childhood." Meneses, who was on an FDN
fund-raising committee, said Bermúdez put Blandón in
charge of raising money in southern California. Meneses
raised funds in the Bay Area and also screened and
recruited potential Contra soldiers from the Nicaraguans
who'd emigrated to the United States.

===== PDF PAGE 110 =====
Meneses became Bermúdez's intelligence and security
adviser in California, he claimed; anyone recruited to fight
for the Contras in Honduras had to pass his muster first, so
the organization would be safe from Sandinista infiltrators.
"It was an understanding between old friends," Meneses
said of the job Bermúdez gave him. "Nobody would join the
Contra forces down there without my knowledge and
approval."
Blandón confirmed that, telling the CIA that Meneses's
role in the FDN operation in California was "primarily that of
a personnel recruiter for the group."
Adolfo Calero, the CIA agent who was the head of the
Contras' political directorate, denied that the two cocaine
traffickers had any official positions with the FDN. But
Calero confirmed that Meneses had come to Honduras to
meet with Bermúdez and had brought him a crossbow as a
gesture of his esteem.
Another top Contra, former FDN director Edgar
Chamorro, acknowledged that Meneses was involved with
both the FDN and Bermúdez. "It was very early, when the
Contras did not have as many supporters as later,"
Chamorro said. "Very early the Contras were trying all
kinds of things to raise funds. This man [Meneses] was
connected with the Contras of Bermúdez, because of the
military kind of brotherhood among the Somoza military—
the brotherhood of military minds."
Blandón insisted that Bermúdez never mentioned drug
sales during his fund-raising pitch, but from Blandón's
description of Bermúdez's instructions, that didn't appear
necessary. The Contra commander apparently had a pretty
good idea of what they were getting into. "There's a saying
that the ends justify the means and that's what Mr.
Bermúdez told us in Honduras, okay?" Blandón said. "So

===== PDF PAGE 111 =====
we started raising money to the Contra revolution." Blandón
doubted that Bermúdez knew specifically they would sell
cocaine to raise the cash, but Contra commander Eden
Pastora has said it would be naive to think that Bermúdez
didn't know he was asking drug dealers for financial
assistance. It was well known in prerevolutionary Nicaragua
"that [Meneses] was involved in illicit or dirty business,"
Pastora said. "He had hotels and it was also said that he
was involved in the sale of cocaine. In those days, cocaine
sales was not very common."
Besides, at that point Bermúdez's Contra group—the
Legion of September 15—was already busily involved in
cocaine smuggling and Bermúdez knew it, as did the CIA.
In September 1981, Langley was informed by cable that the
Legion's "leadership had made a decision to engage in
drug smuggling to the United States in order to finance its
anti-Sandinista operations." The cable said Bermúdez
reportedly had advised against the idea but apparently he
hadn't objected too strenuously; the CIA cable reported that
a successful "trial run" had already taken place. Langley
was informed that a suitcase full of cocaine was smuggled
onto a commercial airliner in July 1981 by a Legion officer,
who then sold the dope in Miami and gave the profits to
another Legion commander.
The CIA's Inspector General found no evidence that the
CIA officials running the Contra program then did a thing
about it.
At their meeting with Bermúdez, Blandón said,
Bermúdez asked if he and Meneses "could assist in the
procurement of weapons." In court testimony, Blandón
called it "a mission" that took them to Costa Rica to
"contact some people to get some connections from where
to construct the Contra revolution. . .. We have to get in

===== PDF PAGE 112 =====
contact with someone that was going to—we were going to
give some money to buy some weapons."
The trip had an inauspicious start, Blandón later told the
CIA.
"Both he and Meneses were escorted to Tegucigalpa
airport by armed Contras," a summary of his CIA interview
states. "Unbeknownst to Bermúdez and the Contras,
Blandón says, he was carrying $100,000 in drug proceeds
to be used in [a] Bolivian drug deal. In the process of
departing the airport, Blandón was stopped and detained
by Honduran officials. Blandón states that his Contra
escorts, seeing that Blandón had been detained with
money, assumed that Blandón had been given the funds by
Bermúdez to purchase arms for the Contras. As a result,
the Contras interceded on Blandón's behalf, effected the
return of the money, and secured Blandón's release."
In doing so, Blandón said, "the Contra escorts told the
Honduran airport authorities that Blandón and Meneses
were Contras. Blandón states he was allowed to leave the
next morning and that he then joined Meneses, who had not
been detained and who had been allowed to travel to
Guatemala."
They were unable to contact the arms dealers they were
looking for, Blandón said, and he returned to California with
Meneses to begin his career in the cocaine business.
Meneses didn't simply hand him the dope. He brought
Blandón to San Francisco for a two-day seminar on the
intricacies of drug dealing. "Mr. Meneses explained to me
how I, you know, how to see. . .the quality, how they sell it by
the ounce, by kilo," Blandón said. Meneses also showed
him how to transport the drug undetected in pickup trucks
by putting the cocaine in "the compartment of the door, the
driver's side door." Meneses brought in a one-eyed

===== PDF PAGE 113 =====
Nicaraguan exile, Raul "El Tuerto" Vega, as a
transportation consultant. Vega, who lived in L.A., was an
old hand at driving dope cars for Meneses, and "Norwin
wanted that I went with Raul Vega to show me how to drive,
how to do it because he used to work more often."
Meneses was a fount of advice on how to avoid
problems, Blandón explained. He told Blandón not to give
out cocaine on credit; "Don't this, don't do a lot of things.
But I didn't know to whom to sell it. But he told me go and
visit a few people and I start." Meneses gave him two kilos
of cocaine—worth about $60,000 each at the time—and
the names of some customers in Los Angeles, and told him
to hit the streets. The cocaine was provided at no cost, but
with the understanding that Blandón would pay Meneses
back out of the profits.
When Blandón began doing this is a matter of some
conjecture. Blandón insists that he didn't actually sell his
first ounce of cocaine until early in 1982. But others who
knew him at the time say he was dealing drugs in L.A.
much earlier. Still others insist Blandón, like Meneses, was
already a trafficker back in Somoza's Nicaragua, before
the Sandinista revolution.
The Torres brothers would later tell the FBI that Blandón
picked up his two kilos from Meneses in 1980. "Shortly
after Blandón moved to the Los Angeles area Blandón was
introduced to Norwin Menesis [sic] in the San Francisco,
California, area by Donald Barrios," Jacinto Torres told the
FBI. "In approximately 1980, Danilo Blandón, Frank Vigal
[sic] and Douglas Diaz travelled to the San Francisco area
where they obtained two kilograms of cocaine from
Menesis. Blandón, Vigal and Diaz returned to the Los
Angeles area where they had thirty days to sell the
cocaine."

===== PDF PAGE 114 =====
Frank Vigil is a Contra supporter who had worked as a
public relations director for Norwin Meneses in one of
Norwin's nightclubs in Managua. Though he admits being in
Los Angeles in 1980, he denies traveling with Blandón to
meet with Meneses or selling cocaine himself, although he
says he knew Blandón was doing it. Blandón has identified
Diaz as a man who would drive Meneses's cocaine to L.A.
occasionally, but he said Diaz was not with him during his
training period at Norwin's house.
Blandón's wife's uncle, economist Orlando Murillo, also
agrees that Blandón was selling drugs for Meneses before
1982. "I was in Costa Rica and Chepita called me and
said, 'I have serious problems with Danilo,'" Murillo
recalled. Chepita told him they'd started a small business,
but that Danilo was dealing drugs and had gotten in debt to
Meneses, who was now pressing her for the money. "I sent
her another $5,000," Murillo said. He acknowledged that
his money was probably used to pay off Meneses, but said
Chepita "is my niece and my only relative. And Danilo is a
very dangerous man. So I help her when I can."
Murillo placed the call from his frantic niece in "1981,
February or January."
One DEA informant told the Justice Department that
Blandón was a drug dealer even before he came to the
United States, and had known Meneses for years, long
before meeting up with him at LAX that day. Longtime
Meneses employee Rafael Cornejo claimed that Blandón
and Meneses "knew each other back in Nicaragua before
the war. Danilo was sort of in the background of the group
that hung around with Mundo. I'd see him at parties
sometimes."
In an interview with journalist Georg Hodel, former
Sandinista leader Moises Hassan—who is related to

===== PDF PAGE 115 =====
Blandón's mother-in-law, Vilma Pena Alvarez—said
Blandón "was involved with drugs and contraband prior to
the Sandinista takeover." Hassan had known Blandón
since college, where Blandón was a student activist on
behalf of Somoza's Liberal party.
The DEA, in a sworn statement filed in San Diego
federal court, corroborated Hassan's statements. In a
sealed search warrant affidavit filed in May 1992, DEA
agent Chuck Jones wrote, "Blandón fled Nicaragua after
the Samoza [sic] regime was deposed. Blandón had been
a cocaine trafficker in Nicaragua prior to the fall of Samoza
[sic] but had enjoyed protection through family political
influence. Since about 1982, Blandón has been a cocaine
trafficker in the United States."
At the time Jones made that statement, he was
Blandón's case agent. Four years later, though, when
defense attorneys accused federal prosecutors of hiding
Jones's revealing affidavit from them, Agent Jones would
suddenly remember that it wasn't Blandón he'd been
referring to when he prepared the affidavit to search his
storage locker. No, he claimed, he'd confused Blandón's
background with Meneses's.
Regardless of when Blandón's career as a cocaine
trafficker began, by the time he says he started selling
drugs for the Contras, they were no longer just a ragtag
group running around the jungles on their own. They were,
by early 1982, the property of the Central Intelligence
Agency.

===== PDF PAGE 116 =====
"I never sent cash"
B
etween July 1979 and March 1981, Somoza's exiled
supporters had made little headway in putting together any
kind of organized opposition.
It wasn't for lack of trying. It was for lack of money.
The Legion of September 15—the hundred or so
ex-
Guardia
 men hiding out in Guatemala—survived through
thievery and contract killings. Another group of exiles
coalesced in Miami, calling themselves the National
Democratic Union (UDN), which had a small armed branch
in Honduras called the Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Nicaragua (FARN). Both the legion and this second group
—UDN-FARN—tapped into Miami's Cuban community,
drawing financial support and volunteers from the rabidly
anti-Communist Cubans, including men who had worked
with the CIA on the Bay of Pigs operation in the 1960s.
The union of the Nicaraguan and Cuban exile
communities in Miami was an obvious marriage. The
Nicaraguans hated Daniel Ortega and the Sandinistas
almost as much as the Cubans hated Fidel Castro. Castro
had been giving the Sandinistas aid and comfort since the
mid-1970s. After the war, Cuba provided key advisers to
the Sandinistas on how best to beef up their own army and,
most of all, their intelligence services.
As the Cubans had learned from twenty years of covert
war with the United States and the CIA, the best defense
against subversion was information. Who were your
enemies? Who were the infiltrators? What were they
planning?
The combination of the Cubans' advice and the
Sandinistas' own experiences at the hands of Somoza's

===== PDF PAGE 117 =====
secret police led them to build an efficient and deadly
secret police unit inside the Ministry of the Interior.
The Sandinistas made it difficult for any organized
opposition to take root inside Nicaragua. As a result, the
Contras were forced to rely on help from outsiders—exiles,
many impoverished by their flight, and foreign governments.
The first donation of military supplies appears to have
come from the Miami group UDN-FARN in the fall of 1980.
Its members scraped together enough money to buy a
couple boxes of rifles from Miami sporting goods stores
and a little radio equipment, which was boxed up and
mailed to Honduras.
The crates were sent to the head of the Honduran
national police, Gustavo Álvarez, an ardent anti-Communist
who took up the Nicaraguans' cause. Álvarez saw that the
guns from Miami got to the soldiers, who were still learning
how to march and drill.
Meanwhile, Bermúdez and other ex-
Guardia
 officers with
the Legion of September 15 made the rounds of South
America's military governments, seeking donations to the
cause. They found much sympathy but little cash.
One of the places they visited was Argentina. At that
time, Argentina's military dictatorship was one of the most
brutal in the world, and its generals were regarded as
pariahs even by other military regimes in Latin America.
The generals there had a deal for them.
A radio station in Costa Rica was broadcasting
unpleasant news about the Argentinian military government,
accusing it—correctly, as it turned out—of murdering
political opponents and nonpolitical citizens alike by the
thousands, sometimes by dropping them out of helicopters
or burying them alive. The radio station was getting on the
generals' nerves. If the Nicaraguans were serious about

===== PDF PAGE 118 =====
fighting their way back into power, the Argentines said, a
little demonstration of their sincerity might not hurt. Why
didn't they try to put Radio Noticias del Continente out of
the broadcasting business?
The legion agreed to take care of the radio station and
infiltrated a sapper team into Costa Rica, hitting the station
about two in the morning on December 13, 1980. But the
raiders didn't find the target quite as easy as they
expected. Earlier Argentine military attempts to close it
down—air-dropping drums of homemade napalm onto the
station's roof, for instance—had caused the broadcasters
to beef up their security. When the legion unit arrived, they
found themselves attacking a pillbox. The raiding team was
met by a hail of machine-gun fire and beat a hasty retreat,
barely managing to toss a Molotov cocktail at a storage
shed. Some were killed. On the way out the survivors were
arrested by the Costa Rican police. All in all, it was a
disaster.
But the Contras got a lucky break from the American
political system that November. Jimmy Carter—whom the
Contras despised for abandoning Somoza—was beaten in
the November elections. A new team was coming to town,
a different administration led by Ronald Reagan and
George Bush, and it had a different outlook on what was
happening in Central America.
When Reagan and Bush looked at Nicaragua, they didn't
see a populist uprising against a hated and corrupt
dictatorship, as did most of the world. They saw another
Cuba taking root in their backyard, another clique of
Communists who would spread their noxious seeds of
dissent and discord throughout the region. And when they
looked at the Contras, they didn't see the remnants of
Somoza's brutal 
Guardia
, or mercenaries doing hired

===== PDF PAGE 119 =====
killings and robberies. They saw plucky bands of freedom
fighters.
Things couldn't have been clearer.
Within days of taking office, Reagan froze all aid to the
Sandinista government. In March 1981 he authorized the
CIA to begin exploring ways of undermining the
Sandinistas and halting their shipments of arms to rebel
groups in El Salvador, with whom the Sandinistas were
ideologically aligned. CIA agents fanned out across the
United States and Central America to begin taking stock of
the scattered pockets of anti-Sandinista groups. They also
began doling out money indirectly, to help keep the
shoestring organizations afloat financially.
The Argentine military, which had been given the cold
shoulder by the Carter administration, also noticed
Washington's fresh new outlook. And they figured, quite
correctly, that one sure way to get back into America's
good graces was to help the Contras out. The next time the
Contras came calling, in the spring of 1981, the Argentines
were glad to see them, despite their bungled job on the
radio station.
"We were practically official guests," former UDN-FARN
commander William Baltodano Herrera told an interviewer
in 1984. "The government took charge of everything. We
were driven everywhere, invited out everywhere and we
didn't have to pay for anything."
When it was time to go, the Argentines slipped
Bermúdez's legion $30,000 and gave UDN-FARN
$50,000, but Baltodano said the money "was just to cover
absolute necessities. One can hardly build a movement
with $50,000. We could pay for our trip with that money."
By mid-1981 Argentine military advisers were secretly
slipping into Honduras and Miami to teach the exiles how to

===== PDF PAGE 120 =====
run a guerrilla war. Dozens of Nicaraguans were also taken
to Argentina for training at special schools there. Because
of the secrecy attached, the Nicaraguans weren't let
outside the safe house where their training was taking
place. "It was in Buenos Aires, in a residential district about
half an hour from Ezeiza airport," former Legion of
September 15 member Pedro Javier Nunez Cabezas
recalled in a 1985 interview. "The training was purely
theoretical, there was no practical instruction. We were
taught theories of espionage, counterespionage,
interrogation techniques, beating techniques, how to lead
troops and psychological warfare. . .. I didn't see anything of
Buenos Aires." After the training, Nunez said, the legion
"divided us up into working groups and handed out various
assignments. A couple of the groups travelled to Miami."
Working closely with the Argentine trainers were General
Álvarez's Honduran police, which helped the CIA covertly
funnel supplies to the fledgling Contra units. Once again,
Norwin Meneses can be found lurking in the background.
His nephew, Jairo, confessed to federal prosecutors that
he'd gone to Honduras in 1982 on behalf of Uncle Norwin
"to negotiate terms of an agreement with officers of the
National Military Police." Under that deal, cocaine seized
by Honduran authorities would be sold to Meneses, who
would smuggle the drugs out in automobiles bound for the
U.S. "Approximately 10 to 20 kilograms per month were
imported in this manner," Jairo Meneses reported. If that
little conspiracy between Meneses and the Honduran
government ever resulted in an investigation by a police
agency, it is not apparent in the CIA or Justice Department
files released thus far.
Outside Miami, Cuban Bay of Pigs veterans put up
training camps for the Contras' new recruits and invited the

===== PDF PAGE 121 =====
press in to witness the Nicaraguans being drilled by former
Green Berets. Other training camps were reported to have
been set up in California and Texas, but little information
about their locations and operations has emerged.
For the most part, however, the Contras were still
disorganized, barely qualifying as an army. When the CIA
got involved in early 1981, its first project became uniting
the various groups under one umbrella. As things stood, the
bands were too small to be taken seriously as a military
threat, and dealing with them separately was too difficult for
the CIA.
Enrique Bermúdez was persuaded to move his Legion of
September 15 from Guatemala to Tegucigalpa, Honduras,
where the CIA was sending in dozens of new agents and
operatives. The agency pressured the Miami-based UDN-
FARN group to link up with Bermúdez's men and form a
new resistance group, to add yet another degree of
separation from past image problems that might detract
from the freedom fighter persona the Reagan
administration was creating. "The gringos made no secret
of the fact that if we wanted support from them, we'd first
have to join forces," said former legion member Pedro
Nunez.
The problem was that the two Contra groups hated each
other.
UDN-FARN's commander, Fernando "El Negro"
Chamorro, was a rabble-rouser who had fought for the
Sandinistas against Somoza and attained immortality by
helping to shoot a couple rockets at Somoza's bunker from
the roof of the nearby Intercontinental Hotel in 1974. He was
also known to have a drinking problem and a questionable
work ethic, and he hadn't managed well within the new
Sandinista government. Eventually, he broke completely

===== PDF PAGE 122 =====
with the ruling Sandinistas and drifted down to Costa Rica
to join his older brother, Edmundo Chamorro, another
former Sandinista. Together the Chamorro brothers
became the military leaders of UDN-FARN.
The Chamorros' Contra group, with its connections to the
Miami Cubans, was actually further along in developing an
organized, regional opposition force than Bermúdez's
scruffy legionnaires. Though based in Costa Rica, UDN-
FARN had established a small military camp in Honduras
at the Cuban-owned Hacienda El Pescado, just outside the
capital city of Tegucigalpa. "At that time, the UDN-FARN
had the best connections with the Honduran capital and
with the Honduran military and government," said former
UDN-FARN commander Baltodano.
Baltodano's group wanted nothing to do with Bermúdez's
brutish outfit, resisting the CIA's desire that it join forces
with the legion. The Chamorros regarded many of the
ex-
Guardia
 men of the legion to be war criminals who could
never win popular support back home. "The Legion was
entirely composed of ex-National Guards. Naturally one
couldn't make a big splash with that in Nicaragua,"
Baltodano said. There were also indications that Bermúdez
was personally corrupt. In 1981 a group of legion officers
voted to expel him from the organization for misuse of funds
and lying. The mutiny was put down by Bermúdez's
Argentine backers.
The CIA eventually got its way. After top CIA officials met
with their allies in the Honduran military, the Hondurans
withdrew their support of the Chamorros' group and backed
Bermúdez's legion instead. If UDN-FARN wanted to stay in
the Contra business, it would have to merge with
Bermúdez's ex-
Guardia
 men.
And if it didn't want to merge—well, it would merge

===== PDF PAGE 123 =====
anyway.
An odd kind of "unity" meeting was held in August 1981
in the upstairs rec room of the legion's rented safe house in
Guatemala City. With an Argentine military officer looking
on, Bermúdez signed a one-paragraph document stating
that the Legion of September 15 and UDN-FARN "agree to
join efforts and constitute a single organization that will be
called the Nicaraguan Democratic Forces (FDN) in order
to fight against the Sandinistas."
The Chamorro brothers boycotted the meeting rather
than sit in the same room with Bermúdez, which was fine
with Bermúdez, who regarded the Chamorros as closet
Communists.
The legion moved to Honduras, and the FDN was
officially born. Quickly the UDN-FARN Contras were
pushed into the background and assigned to subordinate
roles. The top jobs were filled by Bermúdez and his
murderous crew from the Legion of September 15. "By
choosing to support Colonel Bermúdez and the FDN over
other Contra factions, the United States threw in its lot with
the single most detested group of Nicaraguans," former
New York Times
 reporter Stephen Kinzer, who covered the
Contras, wrote in 1991. "American planners never seemed
to grasp the simple fact that Nicaraguans hated the
National Guard and would never support an insurgency
directed by ex-Guardsmen."
The CIA's role in the FDN's creation—hidden at the time
—was spelled out by former FDN director Edgar Chamorro
in an affidavit filed with the World Court in the Hague in
1985. Chamorro, a former advertising executive and
distant relative of the UDN-FARN Chamorro brothers, said
the CIA paid for the meeting, rented the building, and
drafted the agreement. "The name of the organization, the

===== PDF PAGE 124 =====
members of the political junta and the members of the
general staff were all chosen or approved by the CIA."
As luck would have it, the CIA selected another one of
Norwin Meneses's friends to assist Bermúdez in running
the FDN: Aristides Sanchez, a wealthy landowner whose
brother Fernando had been Somoza's last ambassador to
Guatemala after Edmundo Meneses was assassinated.
Another Sanchez brother, Troilo, had been one of Norwin's
friends and business partners in Managua. And yet another
brother, Enrique, was partners in a Miami restaurant with
Danilo Blandón's "friend from Miami," Donald Barrios, the
man Blandón claims introduced him to Norwin Meneses.
Like Bermúdez, Aristides Sanchez went on the CIA's
payroll and began reporting daily to his CIA overseers.
Together, Bermúdez and Sanchez would become the heart
and soul of the military side of the Contra organization. (The
political side was left to CIA agent Adolfo Calero, the
former manager of the Coca-Cola bottling plant in
Managua, who also worked closely with Aristides Sanchez.
Oliver North later called Sanchez "Calero's hatchet man.")
Though the FDN would change and merge with other
groups over the years, the Bermúdez-Sanchez alliance
stood unchanged, thanks largely to the backing of the CIA.
"Sanchez became one of the Contras' top political and
military strategists, plotting logistics, buying supplies and
delivering weapons," wrote the 
Miami Herald
 in his 1993
obituary. Throughout the 1980s, Sanchez was consistently
described in the press as the Contras' supply chief. Norwin
Meneses explained that when he was buying and delivering
weapons and supplies to the FDN, "I dealt directly with
Bermúdez, and occasionally his assistant on minor things. I
also worked with Aristides Sanchez. He was a very good
friend of mine."

===== PDF PAGE 125 =====
By November 1981 the Contra project was far enough
along that the CIA moved to make its sponsorship of the
FDN official. President Ronald Reagan was presented with
a document known as National Security Decision Directive
#17, which served as a blueprint for the U.S. government's
plan to overthrow the Sandinista government. It called for
the CIA to conduct a variety of covert operations—military
and political—against the Sandinistas and asked for
$19.95 million to do it with. The document made it clear that
it was only a start. "More funds and manpower" would be
needed later.
It was obvious to anyone that the CIA's $19 million wasn't
going to go very far if a serious paramilitary operation was
being planned. The paucity of the allocation, in fact, was
used by former CIA deputy director Admiral Bobby Inman
to ridicule a reporter's suggestion that the CIA was
financing a Contra war machine. "I would suggest to you
that $19 million or $29 million isn't going to buy you much of
any kind these days, and certainly not against that kind of
military force," Inman told a press briefing in 1982.
The covert operations, according to Reagan's directive,
would be conducted "primarily through non-Americans." In
particularly delicate situations, the agency would send in
UCLAs—Unilaterally Controlled Latino Assets—to do the
dirty work. That way, if any of them got caught, Langley
could throw up its hands and insist it had no idea what was
going on.
Reagan approved the intelligence finding, and in
December 1981 he sent CIA director William Casey to
present Congress with it, saying that the covert operations
planned for Nicaragua were in the interest of U.S. national
security. Under the law, a "finding" from the president and
congressional notification was required if a major covert

===== PDF PAGE 126 =====
operation was being planned.
From that point on, the Contras were the CIA's
responsibility. From late 1981 through most of 1984, the
agency ran the show directly, doling out weapons and
money, hiring subcontractors, ferrying supplies, planning
strategy and tactics, and keeping tabs on its hirelings. As
the Nicaraguans soon learned, their role was to fight and to
obey orders. Someone else, usually an American CIA
agent or an Argentine military trainer, would do the thinking
for them. One order the Nicaraguans were repeatedly given
was to vehemently deny any connection to the CIA.
Bermúdez played that role to the hilt, angrily brushing off
any press suggestions that the U.S. government had a
hand in running the FDN. "We would never accept the role
of American mercenary," Bermúdez huffed.
Former FDN director Edgar Chamorro claimed that CIA
advisers prepped them for their press conferences and told
them to deny they had received any money from the U.S.
government. "It was particularly important that we deny
having met with any U.S. government officials," Chamorro
recounted in his book 
Packaging the Contras
.
Blandón said that when he began selling drugs for the
FDN in Los Angeles, he was aware the U.S. government
had somehow become involved with his organization but
saw no direct evidence of it himself. "Maybe in the principal
office in Honduras they were helping, but, no, because we
were being helped by the Argentina people at that time,"
Blandón said.
To further insulate themselves from the Contras, CIA
officials worked out a deal with the Argentine and Honduran
generals. The Americans would supply the cash if the
Argentines would supply the training and military advisers.
The Hondurans would provide the clandestine bases from

===== PDF PAGE 127 =====
which the Contras would operate. As their part of the deal,
both countries would get a lot better treatment—increased
foreign aid and military support—from the U.S. government.
This tripartite agreement, however, did nothing to ease
the financial woes of the Contra commanders. The $19
million in CIA money that Reagan had approved did not go
to the Contras. In fact, they saw very little of it. Nearly all of
that money was channeled through the Argentine military,
both to preserve the CIA's "deniability" and to make sure
the Argentines retained some semblance of control over
the Nicaraguans. In essence, the CIA was paying the
Argentine military to run its covert war. When the Contras
needed cash, they had to go begging it from the haughty
Argentines.
"They handled all the money. The Nicaraguans—from
Bermúdez, needing several hundred dollars for the rent on
the Tegucigalpa safe houses, to a foot soldier on leave in
the capital, asking for a couple of bucks to see a movie—
had to get it from the Argentines," journalist Glenn Garvin, a
Contra sympathizer, wrote in 1992. "That was just one of
the ways, some subtle and some anything but, that the
Argentines let it be known that they were in charge."
While the Contras were forced to beg for scraps, the
Argentines were being paid $2,500 and $3,000 a month,
"some just for sitting around at a desk cutting up
newspapers," said Argentine adviser Hector Frances.
Frances described "multi-million dollar purchases carried
out by the Argentinian advisors in Honduras. . .furniture,
equipment, tools, and office equipment; million-dollar
purchases from a pharmacy near the Hotel Honduras
Maya. . .where in a few months, the owner made himself a
multi-millionaire, and also multi-million dollar accounts rung
up at the Hotel Honduras Maya, where the Argentinian

===== PDF PAGE 128 =====
advisors lived for almost six months, occupying nearly an
entire wing of the hotel." That the Contras had to grovel for
handouts from the high-living Argentines rankled mightily.
And though the Americans had promised to start sending
guns, ammo, and equipment, it would be nearly a year
before those supplies began arriving.
It was against that backdrop that Meneses and Blandón
had been called to Honduras to meet with Enrique
Bermúdez, where they were told by the new FDN
commander to raise money in California. It is
understandable that they would have translated this to
mean, by any means necessary. After all, crime had
ensured the survival of Bermúdez's legion in Guatemala.
And what was a little cocaine trafficking when compared
to kidnappings and contract killings?
Danilo Blandón's first illegal Contra fund-raising efforts
met with the same lack of success as had his legal rallies
and parties, he said; the two kilos Meneses had given him
to sell weren't moving because he knew nothing about the
cocaine business.
"Well, it took me about three months or four months to
sell those two keys because I don't know what to do,"
Blandón said. "Meneses told me, 'You go to—with two
customers.' That wasn't enough, you know? Because in
those days, two keys was too heavy."
Jacinto Torres, Blandón's large Nicaraguan car dealer
friend, told the FBI that Blandón was unable to unload all the
cocaine Meneses had dumped on him. "Torres stated that
Blandón and the others only sold a few ounces of the two
kilos to someone in the San Diego area. They gave the rest
of the unsold cocaine to Raul Vega" (the one-eyed driver
for Meneses who had helped train Blandón in San
Francisco), the 1992 FBI report said.

===== PDF PAGE 129 =====
"Mr. Meneses was pushing me every—every week, you
know, 'What's going on?'" So Blandón said he had to turn
to friends and acquaintances in the automobile business to
cultivate customers. "I started getting some people," he
said, but his cocaine deals were still small potatoes, selling
only "ounces, ounces and grams at that time. . .. It's only for
the money that we had to send. We start sending trucks,
pickups, to the Contra revolution. We started sending
clothes, medicines at that time."
He told CIA inspectors that he bought a pickup truck and
"filled it with medical supplies and radios and turned it over
to others to drive to Central America. He says that the truck
was, in fact, later used by the FDN in Honduras." Between
1981 and 1982, he said, he also provided several
thousand dollars in drug profits to finance the FDN's wing in
Los Angeles. The drug money "was used to support the
operating expenses—plane tickets, rent, office supplies,
etc." Meneses was doing the same, Blandón said,
estimating his in-kind contributions at about $40,000.
Most of the money he made from cocaine sales, Blandón
said, was turned over to Meneses. How it got from
Meneses to the Contras "was Meneses' problem, not mine.
I give the money to Meneses. I bought some cars or
whatever, some pickups, but the money, we gave him the
money. . .. I bought a lot of things, but I never sent cash."
Cash deliveries to the Contras, it turned out, were being
handled by someone else—the unidentified Latin male
whom DEA agent Sandra Smith had seen pick up two
cocaine traffickers from L.A. at the San Francisco airport
and drive to a modest row house in Daly City. And Agent
Smith's gut feelings about the Meneses drug ring had been
right on target. She'd discovered the first direct evidence of
a Contra drug pipeline into California.

===== PDF PAGE 130 =====
"God, Fatherland and Freedom"
I
n the fall of 1981, before his troubles began, Carlos
Augusto Cabezas Ramirez was living, breathing proof that
America could still be the land of opportunity for anyone
willing to roll up his sleeves and work. The chubby thirty-
five-year-old had always been willing to work his way to
where he wanted to go. In Nicaragua, by the age of fourteen
he was helping his mother support nine brothers and
sisters. In 1970 he went to the United States, where he
spent four years studying to become a commercial pilot,
working nights as a janitor to support himself. He took his
pilot's license back to Nicaragua and joined the National
Guard, flying for Somoza's army and managing a crop-
dusting company on the side.
Later Cabezas enrolled in the National University of
Nicaragua, got an accounting degree, and was hired by the
Bank of America. He became head of the Managua
branch's foreign division, supervising seven employees in
the sleek blue-and-white skyscraper that was the country's
only high-rise office building. He got a law degree next,
becoming a licensed attorney in 1978 and setting up a
practice in Managua. But the next year, when the
Sandinistas were on the outskirts of the capital, Cabezas
was recalled to active duty as a fighter pilot. An ardent anti-
Communist, he was happy to defend Somoza's
government against the Sandinistas.
Near the end of the war, when the 
Guardia
 was
desperately striking out at every perceived enemy,
Cabezas took part in the terror bombings of the city of
Masaya, something he still doesn't like to talk about.
On July 15, 1979, four days before the shooting stopped,

===== PDF PAGE 131 =====
Carlos Cabezas caught the last flight out of Managua. He
came to San Francisco, where his wife, three young
daughters, his mother, his brothers, and his sisters were
already living. With a family to support, Cabezas needed a
job—fast. He hired on as a sales agent for the Lincoln
Insurance Company in San Francisco. He also took a
second job as a night janitor at San Francisco's Hilton
Hotel. In 1980, after only a year on the job, the Lincoln
Insurance Company named him Sales Agent of the Year.
He was given a plaque with an engraving of Abraham
Lincoln on it, a prize he still proudly shows off to visitors at
his tiny law office in Managua.
By 1981 his hard work was paying off. He sold his car,
his wife Angela sold some jewelry, and, throwing in some
savings, they scared up $10,000, enough for a down
payment on a small row house in Daly City. In just two years
he'd gone from being a homeless refugee to owning a
piece of the American dream.
When time permitted, Cabezas did legal research for a
couple of lawyers, mainly to keep his skills in tune. That
work made him realize how much he missed the practice of
law and the income that came with it. To be a lawyer in
California, though, he would have to go back to law school
and study for the grueling California bar exam. With a family
to support, a $1,200-a-month mortgage, and two jobs,
Cabezas couldn't think of any way to do it, until he thought
of his ex-brother-in-law, Julio Zavala.
Two years older and recently divorced from Cabezas's
sister Maritza, Zavala had plenty of money. Once Cabezas
had been at Zavala's house when a friend of Julio's named
Nestor Arana came by lugging a suitcase. It was full of
cash, neatly wrapped and stacked. Zavala told the goggle-
eyed Cabezas that part of his job involved taking money to

===== PDF PAGE 132 =====
Miami, and he was paying Arana to do it for him. Cabezas
had asked if Zavala needed any help, but the inquiry was
gently brushed aside.
The more Cabezas thought about it, the more it seemed
that Julio Zavala was his ticket out of the dilemma he was
in. If he could persuade Zavala to give him a loan, Cabezas
figured he could quit his jobs long enough to go to law
school and pass the bar. So in October 1981 he called
Zavala and asked if he could come over and talk to him
about an idea he had. Zavala said sure. And at that
moment, Carlos Cabezas was screwed.
The reason Julio Zavala had so much money is because
he was a cocaine dealer, and a fairly busy one at that. He
wasn't anywhere near Norwin Meneses's global perch, but
few were. Zavala was solidly midlevel. He sold kilos and
ounces to street-level dealers, who then sold grams to
users. For several years he'd been buying directly from a
Colombian in San Francisco and a Nicaraguan in Miami,
picking up a kilo for around $54,000 and turning it over for
up to $68,000, more if he ounced it out. Business had been
good. The day Cabezas called him, however, Julio Zavala
was a worried man. Bad things had been happening all
around him, and he was starting to get nervous.
His problems stemmed from some loose talk last spring
in the lockup at the San Francisco County Jail.
Local DEA agents had busted several people in South
San Francisco for possession of a half-kilo of cocaine. One
of the women arrested was a Contra fund-raiser named
Doris Salomon. She and a codefendant, Lilliana Blengino,
were cooling their heels in the jail when Salomon ruefully
mentioned that the cocaine they'd been busted over wasn't
even hers. It had belonged to her boyfriend, Noel.
A month later, DEA agent Luis Lupin stopped by

===== PDF PAGE 133 =====
Blengino's house to see if she could be of some assistance
to the authorities. Blengino didn't know much, she told
Lupin, but Doris Salomon did say that she'd gotten the
coke from her boyfriend, some guy named Noel. Lupin
made a note of the name and filed it away.
When Salomon appeared in federal court five months
later for a bail hearing, she made a passing reference to a
boyfriend, a fellow named Julio Zavala. Agent Lupin, sitting
in the courtroom, perked up. Could Julio Zavala be this
"Noel" character that Blengino had told him about?
The agent hurried over to the jail and asked to see the
visitors' log for the time Doris Salomon had been there.
Bingo. Julio Zavala had come to see her three times in a
span of eleven days. Unless she had more than one
boyfriend while she was in jail, Zavala had to be Noel,
Salomon's source of supply.
Checking with the San Francisco Police Department,
Lupin discovered that Zavala, a Nicaraguan immigrant, was
no angel. Just a month before Salomon was arrested,
Zavala and another man had been nabbed trying to bust
into a woman's apartment, allegedly to collect a drug debt
from her husband. She called the police, and when the irate
dealers were hustled out to the curb, the cops found five
ounces of cocaine in the Cadillac that Zavala had parked
outside. To be precise, it wasn't actually Zavala's Caddy—it
had been stolen in Florida and presented to him as a gift
from his Miami cocaine connection.
Lupin noticed that the other man arrested with Zavala that
day, Edmundo Rocha, had been one of those pinched with
Doris Salomon a month later. And there in Rocha's wallet
the police had found a slip of paper with "Julio 349–2790"
written on it. It was a small world. The DEA started an
investigation.

===== PDF PAGE 134 =====
That was the way Zavala's luck had been going all year.
He'd been busted twice, his girlfriend had been busted,
his friend Mundo Rocha had been busted twice. The
charges against Zavala had been dropped each time, but
he didn't like the odds of it happening again. Zavala was
moving a lot of cocaine. He had customers in Miami, Los
Angeles, Chicago, and San Francisco. He was also
making inroads into Oakland's black community, selling to
a couple of African-American dealers there. Unfortunately,
the growth of his business was making it increasingly
difficult for him to disguise what he was doing.
When asked, Zavala said he worked as a buyer for some
supermarkets in Costa Rica, which helped cover his
frequent travels to Miami and Central America. But that
story didn't explain why the telephone in his apartment in
San Mateo never stopped ringing, or the steady stream of
people who came and went at all hours. What he needed to
do was fade into the background for a while and lower his
profile. Let someone else take the heat.
So when Carlos Cabezas came around with his hand
out, Zavala didn't give him the brush like the last time. This
time, he listened.
Cabezas told him of his plans to become a lawyer in the
United States, "because I knew that there was no way for
me to go back to my country since the revolution had taken
over the power." He told Zavala that "in order for me to go
to law school, I have to become a full-time student and I
couldn't, you know, catch up if I was working two jobs."
Zavala appeared sympathetic, and when Cabezas was
through, he "said he was going to help me to finance some
and support my family since I had to quit my job." He
couldn't actually give him a loan, he said, but if it was time
and money Cabezas was after, Zavala had a suggestion:

===== PDF PAGE 135 =====
Come work for me. He could make as much as he did at
both of his present jobs put together, and then some. Plus,
he could do it in his spare time. It was the perfect job for
him.
"He said I was going to be delivering cocaine and
collecting money so he can stay a little bit cool," Cabezas
would later testify. "At that time Mr. Zavala was having
problems himself with some legal problems. And he said, 'I
was lucky that the charge was dismissed and I don't want to
get myself in this transaction, so I want you to work for me. I
trust you. And then, you know, the heat is going, it would be
off me for awhile.'"
Zavala told Cabezas he'd pay him $500 for each kilo of
cocaine he delivered, plus a percentage of the drug debts
he collected. And there was an added bonus that Zavala
knew Cabezas would like, given his former brother-in-law's
feelings about the Sandinistas: some of the cocaine they
sold would help to finance the Contras.
So Carlos Cabezas, who'd been a lawyer, an
accountant, a pilot, an insurance salesman, a banker, a
janitor, and a crop duster, became a cocaine dealer for a
while.
At first he stayed around the San Francisco area, running
errands, meeting Zavala's customers, delivering a few kilos
here and there. The work was easy, Cabezas found, and
the money was very good. One of his first errands had been
to pick up a gold Toyota and drive it to the airport, where he
was to meet a couple of Julio's friends from L.A. and bring
them into town. Cabezas agreed to put them up at his
house for the couple of days they would be around.
That was when Carlos Cabezas first drew the attention of
the federal government.
As part of her investigation into the Meneses drug ring,

===== PDF PAGE 136 =====
DEA agent Sandra Smith was watching when Cabezas
arrived at the airport to pick up the two L.A. dealers she'd
been tailing. When Cabezas drove them back to his little
row house in Daly City, 8 Bellevue Avenue was added to
the government's list of potential wiretap locations. Within
two months the FBI had joined the chase. Scattered among
Zavala's customers, the bureau had at least four
confidential informants who were giving them chapter and
verse: when the cocaine loads were arriving, when the
couriers were coming and going, how much cocaine Zavala
and Cabezas were selling, how much money was leaving
the country. The evidence that the two Nicaraguans were
involved in a major cocaine trafficking network piled up fast.
A recently declassified CIA Inspector General's report
shows that the Agency had been wise to Zavala since
1980. That year a CIA operative reported that Zavala was
supplying drugs to a Nicaraguan official who was a drug
addict. The operative would keep the Agency apprised of
Zavala's activities for years. In addition, the CIA has
admitted that a relative of one of the people involved in the
drug ring was working for the CIA at the time.
To Zavala, blissfully unaware of the gathering storm, it
seemed as if things were finally looking up. Hiring Cabezas
had been a stroke of genius. The customers liked him. He
was dependable, a hard worker, and would probably start
bringing in some customers of his own soon. Zavala was
so pleased with himself that he decided to take some time
off and celebrate. His girlfriend, Doris Salomon, had
jumped bail and was waiting for him down in Costa Rica,
he told Cabezas. He was flying down to join her, and his
plans were to get married and spend his honeymoon down
in Central America. He told Cabezas he'd see him after the
holidays, and off he went.

===== PDF PAGE 137 =====
So, after just a month and a half in the business,
Cabezas began running a major drug ring, doing Zavala's
job as well as his own. He started dealing directly with
Zavala's cocaine suppliers and keeping the books, his
accounting background helping him to record the
operation's income and expenses meticulously.
Cabezas said the cocaine he and Zavala were selling
came from two separate sources. One was Alvaro Carvajal
Minota, a Colombian who lived in San Francisco. Carvajal
was part of a ring of international cocaine dealers located
in Cali, Colombia, a group that would later become known
as the Cali cartel. By the early 1990s the Cali dealers
would operate the world's biggest cocaine sales network,
eclipsing the rival Medellín cartel in terms of power and
money. But in late 1981 few in U.S. law enforcement circles
were even aware of the cartels. Cabezas began making
trips to Cali in 1982 to negotiate deliveries for Zavala.
The other source, Cabezas said, was someone down in
Costa Rica. That cocaine would arrive by courier via Miami
and would sometimes be brought to Cabezas's house for
safekeeping.
Because each source had different prices and delivery
costs, Cabezas kept two sets of books—one for the Costa
Ricans and another for the Colombians—so everyone got
paid what they were owed, without any mix-ups. The
cocaine from Costa Rica was of a far higher quality than
the Colombians' powder. It was Peruvian. And it was this
cocaine, he said, that belonged to the Contras.
He got proof of that in December 1981 when Zavala
called him from Costa Rica and told him to catch a plane
down. Zavala wanted him to meet some friends of his.
The friends turned out to be two exiled Nicaraguans who
were working with Norwin Meneses: Horacio Pereira

===== PDF PAGE 138 =====
Lanuza, a drug dealer and gambler known as 
La Burra
 (a
female donkey), and Troilo Sanchez Herdocia, a playboy
brother of FDN leaders Aristides and Fernando Sanchez.
Fernando Sanchez had been Somoza's last
ambassador to Guatemala, replacing the slain Edmundo
Meneses. The U.S. State Department, in a 1988
publication, described Fernando as the Contras'
"representative in Guatemala." Troilo Sanchez had been a
partner of Meneses in one of Norwin's nightclubs in
Managua, and was one of his drinking buddies. A pilot,
Sanchez said he flew for the CIA in the early 1960s during
preparations for the Bay of Pigs invasion, which was partly
staged from Nicaragua. But by the late 1970s he was a
hopeless drug addict, spending large sums of his family's
fortune on heroin, cocaine, women, and gambling. The
Sandinistas seized what was left, and Troilo Sanchez and
his wife, Isanaqui, fled to Costa Rica, where they became
partners with Meneses in a bean-processing factory there.
"We are like family," Meneses said of Sanchez's wife in
a 1986 interview. "She came many times to visit my brother
Mundo, who was a general and the police chief of Managua
and was later assassinated in Guatemala for the
Sandinistas."
Horacio Pereira had also been a business partner of
Meneses before the revolution. Meneses said they owned
cattle and cattle ranches together and had known each
other since childhood. Both were from Esteli, where
Pereira controlled some gambling clubs.
Cabezas told CIA investigators that his December 1981
meeting in Costa Rica "was the genesis of an effort to
raise money for the Contras by selling drugs. Although the
original reason for the meeting was purely social, Cabezas
says Sanchez and Pereira raised the idea of selling

===== PDF PAGE 139 =====
cocaine as a means of raising funds for the Contras.
Cabezas says Pereira and Sanchez discussed the idea
with him because both knew of Cabezas' role in the Zavala
organization. Although it was Sanchez's and Pereira's idea
to raise funds for the Contras by engaging in drug
trafficking, Cabezas says it was Zavala who came up with
the idea that Cabezas serve as a go-between by collecting
the money from street dealers and delivering it to Central
America." Zavala and Sanchez have denied any
involvement in drug trafficking for the Contras.
On January 23, 1982, Zavala sent Cabezas back to
Costa Rica with two other men to pick up two kilos of
cocaine from Pereira. But Pereira was suddenly
uncomfortable with the arrangements. "I went down there
with those two people to Costa Rica, but apparently Mr.
Pereira changed his mind because he said he had some
information that Mr. Zavala was drinking very heavily and he
was scared that Mr. Zavala was going to misuse that
money that supposedly he said that he was helping the
Contra revolution in Nicaragua," Cabezas would later
testify. Pereira told Cabezas that "he was representing the
UDN-FARN and FDN in Costa Rica and that they had
chosen Zavala's organization to sell the cocaine they were
getting in from Peru. He said the money was going to the
Contras and that the CIA would control the delivery of the
money."
Pereira's information about his ex-brother-in-law was
correct, Cabezas conceded. Zavala 
had
 been drinking
quite a bit, and he was starting to neglect his
responsibilities, falling behind in his payments to the
Colombians, who were getting annoyed. His dicey
relationship with them would be the source of several
arguments, Cabezas said. Sometimes, when the

===== PDF PAGE 140 =====
Colombians were really pressing for money, Zavala would
take some of the Contras' cocaine and sell it to pay the
Colombians, which played hell with Cabezas's accounting.
The wary Pereira suggested an alternative: He would
deal directly with Cabezas. He would sell him the cocaine,
and then Cabezas would become responsible for getting
the Contras' money back to Costa Rica. But Cabezas was
hesitant. "I explained to Mr. Pereira that I didn't have no
clients and that if I have to sell the cocaine, I have to tell Mr.
Zavala because I wasn't going to jump him," Cabezas later
testified. "I wasn't going to do anything behind his back."
But Pereira insisted that Cabezas had to assume
responsibility for the cash, "because the money belonged. .
.to help the Contra revolution," Cabezas said. That was the
only way, Pereira told him, that he would let go of the
cocaine.
Cabezas called Zavala and explained the situation, and
Zavala agreed to Pereira's terms. But Cabezas was no
fool. Instead of his usual $500 per kilo payment, he wanted
half of Zavala's profits, "because I am taking the
responsibility of the money." Stuck, Zavala had no choice
but to agree. In an interview with the CIA, Zavala confirmed
that he was then cut off from Cabezas's dealings with
Pereira and Sanchez.
Cabezas traveled with Pereira to San Pedro Sula in
Honduras, where he met other members of Pereira's
family. While there, he said, he stayed at the home of
Pereira's brother-in-law, an exiled Nicaraguan attorney
named Francisco Aviles Saenz, who had been educated in
the United States. He spent two or three days in Honduras,
waiting for "a Peruvian who would be bringing drugs for
shipment to the United States." Before he left, Pereira gave
Cabezas a bottle of whiskey, some souvenirs, and two

===== PDF PAGE 141 =====
hand-woven baskets from Peru, saying, "This one is for you
and the other one is for Julio." Baffled that there was no
cocaine, Cabezas took the gifts back to San Francisco.
When he showed the baskets to Zavala, Cabezas said,
Zavala exclaimed, "These are not gifts!" and began ripping
them apart. As Cabezas watched, Zavala stripped the
basket down to its internal framework and, from inside the
frame, pulled out long, thin, waxy strings that resembled
skinny candles. Taking a razor blade, he slit them open and
poured out a small pile of cocaine powder. Cabezas said
each "candle" held about three ounces of cocaine, and
each basket contained about a kilo.
Cabezas would later testify that he personally brought
back twelve kilos from Pereira during the first part of 1982,
earning about $17,000. He would tell CIA inspectors that
"Contra mules, typically airline flight attendants" were also
bringing the baskets into the United States, one kilo at a
time. When the baskets arrived in San Francisco, it was
Cabezas's job to dismantle them and extract the cocaine.
How many kilos Pereira sent into the States is anyone's
guess, but Costa Rican authorities claimed that he was the
biggest cocaine trafficker in their country during the early
1980s.
For the next year, Cabezas said, he and others made
regular trips to Miami and Costa Rica carrying money for
the Contras. He told CIA investigators that "on average. .
.he carried $64,000 on each of his 20 trips to Central
America, although he also claims that he and another
person once delivered about $250,000 to Pereira and
Sanchez." FBI records show Zavala made a money-hauling
trip to Costa Rica in early 1982, and said the amount he
was carrying was a quarter million dollars. The FBI was
informed early on that the Contras were deeply involved

===== PDF PAGE 142 =====
with the drug ring. In February 1982 an informant reported
that Zavala "had been making silencers and sending them
to Nicaragua for the revolution." The same informant also
reported that Contra leader Adolfo Calero, the FDN's
political boss and a longtime CIA agent, "was definitely
involved in cocaine traffic." (It appears, however, that the
informant may actually have been referring to Calero's
brother, Mario, a Contra supplymaster based in New
Orleans who was repeatedly linked to drugs and thievery.)
An FBI teletype shows that by November 1982 the
bureau—thanks to its wiretaps and inside informants—
knew exactly what was going on inside Zavala's drug ring.
According to the report, from the San Francisco FBI office
to the FBI director in Washington, "Zavala's sources of
supply of this cocaine are: Troilo Sanchez, Fernando
Sanchez and Horacio Pereira. All three are operating out of
Costa Rica." As for Cabezas, "Cabezas's sources of
supply for cocaine have been established as Troilo
Sanchez, Fernando Sanchez, Horacio Pereira of Costa
Rica, Humberto and Fernando Ortiz of Colombia,
Sebastian Pinel of Los Angeles and Alvaro Carvajal Minota
of San Francisco."
(Though the FBI didn't realize it, that cable exposed yet
another L.A.-based Contra drug dealer, Sebastian Pinel.
He first appeared in the CIA's files in late 1980, at the
inception of the CIA's counter-revolutionary experiments.
The CIA identified Pinel as the leader of an unnamed
Contra group in Honduras, and knew the Contra boss was
a reputed dope trafficker, describing him as a "partner"
and "best friend" of Horacio Periera, Norwin's Costa Rican
cocaine broker.)
Cabezas was also taking $50,000 a month to the
Contras' Miami offices, located in a shopping center near

===== PDF PAGE 143 =====
the Miami airport. Often he would give the money directly to
FDN leader Aristides Sanchez, the brother of his suppliers
Troilo and Fernando. Aristides Sanchez died in 1993; he
was still working on behalf of the Contras at the time of his
death, according to a laudatory obituary in the 
Miami
Herald
.
Cabezas told the CIA that "he never specifically told
Aristides Sanchez that the money came from drug
proceeds but only that it was from Troilo. Cabezas said he
assumed Aristides Sanchez must have known what Troilo
was involved in." Other Contras certainly did. Former
Contra official Leonardo Zeledon Rodriguez told UPI in
1986 that "Troilo sold 200 pounds of cocaine and received
$6.1 million for it."
The money Cabezas took to Central America was given
to Pereira or an FDN logistics officer, Joaquin "Pelon"
Vega, who lived in Danli, Honduras, Cabezas said. He
assumed the money was used to buy food and clothing for
the newly formed guerrilla army. (Vega could not be located
by the author.)
On one of his trips to Costa Rica with Contra cash in
April or May of 1982, Cabezas told CIA investigators, he
was called to a meeting at a San Jose hotel, where Pereira
and Troilo Sanchez introduced him to a curly-haired, solidly
built man he'd never seen before. The man called himself
Ivan Gómez and told Cabezas that he was with the CIA—
the agency's "man in Costa Rica." Gómez said he was
there, Cabezas said, "to ensure that the profits from the
cocaine went to the Contras and not into someone's
pocket." Cabezas saw the CIA agent only once more, in
late summer, when he was met at the San Jose airport by
Pereira and the CIA man, but Gómez never spoke during
the second meeting.

===== PDF PAGE 144 =====
In an interview with a British television crew in late 1996,
former CIA official Duane "Dewey" Clarridge said he'd
never heard of Ivan Gómez. Clarridge was the CIA officer
who headed the Contra project from 1981 to 1984 and was
later indicted for lying to Congress about the Iran-Contra
scandal. He was pardoned by President George Bush, a
former CIA director.
The 1998 CIA Inspector General's report strongly
suggests Dewey Clarridge was lying once again, and it
largely corroborates Cabezas' story. The CIA report
confirms that an agent using the name "Ivan Gómez" was
assigned to Costa Rica in 1982. As Cabezas claimed, he
was the CIA's liaison to the Costa Rican Contra armies
and, more importantly, was laundering drug money during
the period in which Cabezas says he was delivering
cocaine profits to the agent.
Gómez, a former Venezuelan military officer, admitted
during CIA-administered polygraph tests in 1987 that in
March or April of 1982 he had been involved in laundering
funds for drug dealers, but he claimed the dopers were
relatives. (Since Cabezas did not disclose his contacts with
agent Gómez until 1996, the polygraph examiner
apparently did not ask the CIA agent about laundering cash
for the Contras.) Despite Gómez's admissions, the CIA
Inspector General dismissed Cabezas' story as an
invention, suggesting that the trafficker could not have met
Gómez because the agent hadn't yet arrived in Costa Rica
when Cabezas recalls meeting him. But the CIA report fails
to explain how a San Francisco cocaine dealer could so
accurately dream up the alias of an undercover CIA agent
stationed in Costa Rica, describe his role with the Contras
with such precision, and pinpoint to within 30 days the time
period during which the agent admits laundering drug

===== PDF PAGE 145 =====
money. Moreover, a former CIA asset who'd infiltrated the
Frogman drug ring corroborated key elements of Cabezas'
story in interviews with the Justice Department in 1997.
Gómez was fired by the CIA in 1989 because of his
repeated inability to pass polygraph tests concerning his
drug dealing. The CIA toyed with the idea of reporting him
to the Justice Department but decided against it and simply
cut him loose.
"It is a striking commentary on me and everyone that this
guy's involvement in narcotics didn't weigh more heavily on
me or the system," Gómez's former supervisor told CIA
inspectors in 1997. His only interest in Gómez, he said,
was to help "salvage" a good agent, which suggests that
involvement in drug money laundering wasn't viewed by the
CIA as the type of infraction that should necessarily ruin an
agent's career.
"Gómez" told the CIA inspectors he'd never met
Cabezas or the other traffickers.
Based on Cabezas's statements and the historical
record from the early days of the Contra conflict, it appears
that most of the cocaine profits Cabezas was delivering to
Costa Rica in 1982 went to assist the Contras of the UDN-
FARN faction, which at that time was under CIA
supervision. A 1984 DEA report described UDN-FARN's
deputy commander, Edmundo Chamorro, as "well known to
'The Company.'" So was his brother, UDN-FARN's
commander, Fernando "El Negro' "Chamorro, whom the
CIA describes as "playing a major role in the Contra
movement. . .CIA contact with Chamorro began in 1982."
For most of 1982, UDN-FARN served, however
unwillingly, as the southern branch of the CIA's primary
Contra force—the FDN—run by Meneses's friend Enrique
Bermúdez and his Honduran-based former 
Guardia
 men.

===== PDF PAGE 146 =====
But in September of that year, when former Sandinista
commander Pastora announced he was taking up arms
against his old Sandinista colleagues, UDN-FARN jumped
ship, leaving the FDN and officially uniting with Pastora's
group to form a brand-new Contra army in Costa Rica,
known as ARDE.
At that point, it is likely that the cocaine profits from
Meneses's San Francisco operation began being used to
benefit ARDE. Even then, however, the CIA retained
oversight responsibility. When the Chamorros switched
from the FDN to the ARDE, they simply changed their line
of command. Instead of reporting to Bermúdez, as they had
been doing, they now reported to Pastora. But both
Pastora and Bermúdez were still reporting to the CIA. Like
Bermúdez, Pastora was put on the CIA's payroll, where he
remained until mid-1984.
The merger between the Chamorro brothers and
Pastora's group made sense politically because they had
one trait in common, aside from their preference for fighting
from Costa Rica: as former Sandinistas, they hated the
ex-
Guardia
 officers who made up the FDN. Pastora
frequently outraged his CIA handlers by publicly
complaining about his purported allies to the north, once
picturesquely referring to them as "criminal mummies and
gorillas." Bermúdez and the FDN considered Pastora a
closet Communist and suspected him of being a
Sandinista mole.
Carlos Cabezas said his Contra money flights to Costa
Rica continued throughout 1982 but were interrupted near
the end of that year, when Horacio Pereira was arrested in
Florida. Cabezas said one of the FBI's informants, Donald
Peralta, a man who had accompanied him to Costa Rica
on several occasions to deliver cash, tipped off the FBI that

===== PDF PAGE 147 =====
Pereira was heading south with a wad of greenbacks.
FBI records show that on December 1, 1982, a
confidential source told FBI agent David Alba that "Horacio
Pereira and Augusto Monkel would be traveling from San
Francisco via Miami to San Jose, Costa Rica, with
between $80,000 and $100,000, which was the proceeds
of cocaine sales in San Francisco." Alba called U.S.
Customs, and the next day Pereira was arrested in Miami,
boarding Air Florida Flight 473 to Costa Rica. The agents
found $70,000 on him, which he had failed to declare.
FBI wiretap records show that Cabezas was in contact
with Pereira's cousin, Rosita, soon afterward. "Horacio
going to court tomorrow," the FBI's notes of that phone call
say. "Carlos has some money to help Horacio. The money
taken by Customs will be kept. Carlos asked why Troilo has
not called. Horacio was interviewed but did not mention
Carlos' name. Carlos wants Horacio to call tomorrow."
On Christmas Eve, after he was bailed out, Pereira
called Cabezas and told him that he'd been set up and
needed some money. Cabezas replied that "Jairo is giving
him money," an apparent reference to Norwin Meneses's
nephew, Jairo Meneses.
Then something inexplicable happened.
Pereira, whom the FBI knew to be a major international
cocaine trafficker, was turned loose after paying a small
fine for not declaring the $70,000. He returned to Costa
Rica and immediately resumed drug trafficking, which the
FBI learned while monitoring a phone call from Pereira to
Cabezas on January 21, 1983. "Fine was completed. No
probation, no prison," Pereira was recorded as telling
Cabezas. "Horacio wants to get ready to send Carlos
some material."
By then the feds were crawling all over the drug ring. All

===== PDF PAGE 148 =====
of the traffickers' phone calls were being taped and
transcribed; eventually the FBI would monitor more than
13,000 conversations. Cabezas and Zavala were being
shadowed everywhere. Their dealers and their dealers'
customers had their phones tapped as well.
The wiretaps revealed that the Colombian side of
Zavala's drug operation was using freighters registered to
the Gran Colombiana shipping line to bring cocaine into the
United States. Agents began following the Gran
Colombiana ships as they plied the waters off the West
Coast and watched as kilos of cocaine were unloaded by
Cabezas's associates in San Francisco and Seattle. Right
before Christmas, the FBI started taking the operation
apart.
On December 22, 1982, they intercepted two men
coming off the freighter 
Ciudad de Nieva
 in Los Angeles,
carrying thirty-nine pounds of cocaine. Another Gran
Colombiana ship, the 
Ciudad de Cucuta
, pulled into Pier
96 in San Francisco shortly after the first of the year, and
the FBI set up a stakeout. It was a vessel that, according to
one report, "had been raided in previous drug seizures."
Nearly two weeks went by without anything happening.
Then, just before 2 
A.M
. on January 17, 1983, during the
heaviest fog of the winter, a silver-and-orange Chevy van
and a Toyota Celica pulled up to a hole in a fence near a
swampy marsh leading to Pier 96. Seven men got out and
began wading through the swamp toward the docked
freighter, disappearing into the darkness. Two hours later
the Celica and the van returned, and the seven men
materialized out of the gloom, carrying heavy duffel bags.
Two of them wore divers' wet suits.
The stakeout agents moved in, and one of the suspects
unleashed a short burst from an Uzi submachine gun, but

===== PDF PAGE 149 =====
no one was injured, and they quickly surrendered. The
agents found that all the men were heavily armed—a wise
precaution, considering the value of what they were
carrying: an astonishing 430 pounds of cocaine. Five other
men were also rounded up that night, most of them
Colombians who had been seen in Los Angeles and
Seattle during earlier freighter stakeouts.
It was the biggest cocaine bust in the history of the West
Coast.
The next day the 
San Francisco Chronicle
 blasted the
news of the drug raid across its front page. Headlined
"Cocaine Seized from Frogmen at S.F. Pier," the story told
of "a fog-shrouded scene right out of a B-movie" and
featured a large front-page picture of a Customs agent in a
windbreaker piling football-sized bricks of cocaine on a
table.
It was the first case made by President Ronald Reagan's
new federal Drug Task Force in San Francisco, and U.S.
Attorney Joseph Russoniello, a right-wing Republican close
to the Reagan administration, made sure the media
understood what a momentous seizure the president's new
drug warriors had made. Russoniello told reporters that the
street value of the cocaine the frogmen were carrying was,
after "routine dilution," a whopping $750 million—three
quarters of a 
billion
 dollars. Even the agents working the
case couldn't swallow that one. Russoniello's quote in the
Chronicle
 was followed by one from the DEA saying the
load was worth no more than $100 million on the street, and
between $11 million and $12 million wholesale.
Two weeks later agents in Los Angeles raided the Gran
Colombiana freighter 
Ciudad de Santa Maria
 and arrested
fifteen people, again mostly Colombians, in the act of
unloading 150 pounds of cocaine. A UPI story noted that

===== PDF PAGE 150 =====
"the arrests were made as the suspects tried to transfer the
drug ashore by way of couriers and a scuba diver." That
story said the cocaine was worth $22.8 million.
(Amazingly, cocaine continued arriving in the United
States aboard Gran Colombiana freighters all the way
through 1986. The very same ship docked at Pier 96 that
night in January 1983—the 
Ciudad de Cucuta
—was found
in Houston the following year with $18 million worth of
cocaine secreted behind a steel wall. The shipping line was
partly owned by the Colombian and Ecuadoran
governments.)
The hammer fell next on Carlos Cabezas and Julio
Zavala.
At 7 
A.M.
 on February 15, federal agents and local police
simultaneously raided fourteen locations in the San
Francisco area, including Cabezas's house and Zavala's
apartment, scooping up everyone and everything they could
find. The haul included the Colombian supplier Alvaro
Carvajal Minota; Cabezas; his mother, Gladys; Zavala; the
low-level dealers they had been selling to; and some of
their customers. In a bookcase in a San Francisco
apartment, records show, police found "five flyers for
Nicaraguan Benefit."
Once again U.S. Attorney Russoniello hosted a media
event, telling reporters: "Before, we got the mules. These
are the higher-ups in the operation." But the real higher-ups
eluded capture, as neither Norwin Meneses nor any of his
family was charged. Former Meneses aide Renato Pena
told the Justice Department in 1997 that Norwin had a DEA
agent on his payroll at the time and the agent "called
Norwin a few weeks before Julio Zavala and Carlos
Cabezas were arrested and warned Meneses of their
impending arrests." The DEA agent, who admitted knowing

===== PDF PAGE 151 =====
Meneses, disputed those allegations during a Justice
Department interview. (Curiously, the agent recalled having
the impression that Meneses was working with the CIA at
the time "moving guns for the Contras.")
While Russoniello and the federal agents who
accompanied him were more than happy to give out
detailed tidbits concerning the Colombians—such as the
fact that Carvajal Minota sent boxloads of cash and jewelry
each month to his mother in Cali—they had nothing at all to
say about the cocaine and the cash the Nicaraguans were
hauling to and from Costa Rica.
The involvement of Pereira and the Sanchez brothers
was never disclosed, nor were they ever charged with
anything. For some reason, the fact that the former
Nicaraguan ambassador to Guatemala was bringing
cocaine into the United States wasn't deemed newsworthy
—or indictable.
The Meneses family's involvement with the drug ring was
also suppressed. Defense lawyers had to get a court order
to force the Justice Department to reveal that the 1981
searches targeting Jairo Meneses and Julio Bermúdez,
had even occurred. After the lawyers got those files, they
accused the FBI of "serious misrepresentation" for
concealing the identities of individuals "who are, clearly
from the government's point of view, either distributing
cocaine obtained from some of the principals in this case,
or supplying it to them." The records, they argued, revealed
that there was "a direct and ongoing connection between
the Meneses organization and Carlos Cabezas."
The government replied that the searches had been of
little importance.
When news of the arrests reached Central America,
reporters there saw an angle that their American

===== PDF PAGE 152 =====
counterparts missed. "Somocistas traffic in drugs," is how
the pro-Sandinista daily, 
Barricada
, headlined the story that
appeared on February 20, 1983. "Narcotics police of San
Francisco, California, carried out a haul last Wednesday of
20 cocaine traffickers, among whom are several
Nicaraguans who supported through this criminal activity
the economic needs of Contra groups."
The paper quoted unnamed Nicaraguan diplomatic
sources, asserting that "one could not establish how many
of those captured are of Nicaraguan origin, but there were
several, and they were tied to groups of former Somocista
Guards in San Francisco, and that through the crime of
trafficking in cocaine they are contributing economically to
the Contras." It would take another three years before an
American journalist would make the same connection.
Julio Zavala complained to the court that similar stories
had appeared in the Spanish-language press in Costa
Rica, making it impossible for him to return to Central
America. Both Zavala and Cabezas were held in prison on
$1,000,000 bail, which Cabezas was unable to raise. After
getting a look at the evidence the FBI had compiled against
him, Cabezas's attorney advised him to cut a deal with the
government and testify against Zavala, which Cabezas did.
About a year later, shortly before his trial was to begin,
Zavala's attorney, Judd Iverson, walked into U.S. District
Court judge Robert Peckham's office and dropped a
bombshell on his desk. Iverson handed Peckham two
letters addressed to the court, written by Nicaraguan exiles
in Costa Rica, regarding Julio Zavala's activities on behalf
of the Contras. One was written by Horacio Pereira's
brother-in-law, the exiled attorney Francisco Aviles Saenz,
who identified himself as the international relations
secretary for UDN-FARN. A published account said Aviles

===== PDF PAGE 153 =====
had also helped set up the Committee in Defense of
Democracy in Nicaragua, a CIA front in San Jose, Costa
Rica, with money from Venezuelan sources. The other letter
was also written by Aviles, together with businessman
Vicente Rappaccioli Marquis, on behalf of a group called
the Conservative Party of Nicaraguans in Exile (PCNE). In
the early 1980s he was part of UDN-FARN, according to a
former UDN-FARN commander who'd been recruited by
Rappaccioli.
The Contras' letters said Julio Zavala, who stood
accused by the Justice Department of being a cocaine
kingpin, was actually a Contra official who had been
working for the resistance forces at the time of his arrest;
Zavala was the assistant treasurer of the PCNE and a
longtime member of UDN-FARN, which "fights for the
restoration of the democratic system in the Republic of
Nicaragua. . .under the slogan 'God, Fatherland and
Freedom.'" The reason they were writing Peckham, the
Contra leaders stated, was because the FBI had
something that belonged to them, and they wanted it back.
When Zavala's apartment was searched the morning of
his arrest, the police—in addition to finding an M-1 carbine,
a practice grenade, a variety of passports, and a catalog of
machine guns and silencers—found slightly more than
$36,000 in Zavala's nightstand, which was confiscated as
illegal drug proceeds. That was not an unreasonable
assumption, given all the cocaine and drug paraphernalia
the police found scattered about the place. But the Contras
insisted that the money in the dealer's nightstand was
theirs, and they had given it to Zavala so he could make
some "purchases characteristic of this organization" while
in San Francisco. "The retention of this money is
prejudicing the progress of liberation, with natural

===== PDF PAGE 154 =====
consequences," Aviles warned Peckham.
According to the letter, Zavala had made several trips
between California and Costa Rica on UDN-FARN's
behalf, and during his last visit in January 1983 he was
given $45,000 that UDN-FARN had "collected amongst our
collaborators here in Costa Rica." To prove it, the Contra
leaders provided copies of a letter appointing Zavala as
the assistant treasurer of PCNE, and authorizing him "to
collect within the United States money for the liberalization
of Nicaragua from international communism"; a receipt
showing the group had given him $45,000; his UDN-FARN
credentials; and Aviles's sworn statement that he was
willing to testify to Zavala's position if necessary.
Defense attorney Iverson told Judge Peckham that he
wanted to go down to Costa Rica and take the Contras'
depositions. If what they were saying was true, he argued,
Zavala was going to defend himself on the grounds that
"agents of the U.S. government were intricately involved in
the alleged conspiracy and either sanctioned the use of
cocaine trafficking to raise funds for Contra revolutionary
activity and/or entrapped the Defendant into participating
under the belief that such activity was sanctioned."
Peckham quickly scrawled his signature on an order
sealing the Contras' letters and the other papers Iverson
had submitted. Iverson had requested the secrecy order to
keep the U.S. government from discovering the documents,
which he felt might expose Aviles and Rappaccioli "and/or
their families to harm or political pressure." In court a few
weeks later, Iverson again raised the issue of the
depositions, a request Peckham was still considering.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Mark Zanides scoffed at the notion,
saying that Iverson hadn't come close to showing a need to
go "trudging off in the middle of the trial to Costa Rica

===== PDF PAGE 155 =====
without a firm basis for it."
Judge Peckham disagreed.
"It would be very important testimony to corroborate what
they apparently claim is his defense. It has to do with the
source of the money. My understanding is the Government
will assert the money came from narcotics transactions?"
"It is very likely," Zanides answered.
"Well, he claims another source for another purpose,"
Peckham said. "And this evidence would corroborate that.
It is very important evidence."
"I don't know, I have not seen any reason why the
government isn't entitled to know the identity of the
witnesses," Zanides complained. "I don't know what the
source of this information is, or alleged information. I'm
flying blind."
"There were letters from the people involved that were
filed under seal with the court," Iverson reminded the
prosecutor.
"I don't know who they are," Zanides protested. "These
letters could come from anybody. I don't know if Mr. Iverson
has ever spoken with them personally. I don't know how he
can vouch. . .it is just a letter."
The prosecutor told Peckham that it wasn't "a situation
where we are talking about a threat to the lives of the
witnesses."
"They think so," Peckham replied.
"I think it is," Iverson said.
After holding two hearings in the secrecy of his
chambers, Peckham had the lawyers come to his
courtroom on July 16, 1984, to hear his decision.
Prosecutor Zanides again complained that he was being
kept in the dark about the identity of the Contra officials.
"You are talking about some unknown people in a foreign

===== PDF PAGE 156 =====
country with allegedly revolutionary affiliation," he argued.
"The concern, I suppose, is that these people will be
intimidated," the judge said, "not necessarily expressly.
They are revolutionaries in Nicaragua. They want to
overturn the Nicaraguan government, as I understand it. The
Contras. They are based in Costa Rica and they have
monies. Where those monies came from, nobody knows.
There is speculation about that, but there is no evidence.
They want to show that this money that was found in his
possession came from the Contras."
"I appreciate all that. That's been apparent," Zanides
said. "Let's assume for a moment that I don't believe these
people, that I think they're lying. I mean, I have to be able to
make inquiry of those persons or agencies whom I believe
possess that information."
"Judge, these people probably have very close contacts
with the CIA," Zavala's cocounsel, Marvin Cahn, argued.
"We don't want the CIA saying to them, 'Don't testify.' I see
no reason why an investigation can't be done after the
deposition."
"Oh, that's ridiculous," Zanides said.
"I don't see anything ridiculous about it," Cahn retorted.
"Would you look to the CIA?" Peckham asked the
prosecutor.
"I look anywhere I think there might be some information."
"That is troublesome," the judge said.
"Absolutely, I might look to the CIA."
"Is that troublesome?" Peckham inquired of the lawyers.
"Not to me," Zanides said. "I need to know. It may turn out
that they may be telling the truth."
"It is very troublesome to us to have the CIA involved
because I think our witnesses won't be there if that
happens," Cahn said. "It seems our witnesses should be

===== PDF PAGE 157 =====
afforded the same degree of protection that the
government's informants are afforded."
"That just doesn't add up," Zanides said.
"There is a far more dangerous situation in Costa Rica
than an informant has in the United States!" Cahn said.
Peckham gently intervened. "They fear, you see, that
there will be disclosures made," the judge explained to
Zanides. "And again, I don't accept this because I have no
evidence. So by my saying it, I don't want it understood that
I am finding what I say to be fact. They are afraid. Just like
you are afraid about the safety of informants, they are afraid
that if the CIA is, in fact, financing these people that they will
not want it disclosed and that they will take measures to
make certain people don't get funding or be advised
strongly not to cooperate. I don't know if you have control
over that."
"So the fear," Zanides asked, "is that the CIA is going to
bring some pressure on these people not to testify, is that
it?"
"That's very much the fear," Cahn said. "And I think it is a
realistic fear in this case."
"I don't see any evidence. . .I can't even respond to that,"
Zanides argued. "What is the evidence the CIA—"
"That is fairly well documented," Iverson interjected. "I
don't think there is any question that they are down there
and intimately involved with the group that is trying to
overthrow the Sandinista government."
"All we are saying," Judge Peckham told Zanides, "is
that nobody should discourage them from testifying in this
proceeding by way of deposition. I don't know what is so
horrendous about that."
Peckham granted the defense lawyer's motion to fly to
Costa Rica during mid-August "for the purpose of taking

===== PDF PAGE 158 =====
depositions of Francisco Aviles Saenz and Vicente
Rappaccioli Marquis." He instructed the government to pay
$5,000 in travel expenses for the attorneys.
Six days later the Costa Rican CIA station fired off a
cable to Langley to warn that a federal prosecutor and an
FBI agent were planning a trip to San Jose "to question two
anti-Sandinistas in connection with the prosecution of a
cocaine trafficking case." The problem, the station told
Langley, is that both Aviles and Rappaccioli were Contra
officials and belonged to an organization that had
"unwittingly received CIA support."
Both men were also CIA assets, the station said. Langley
was advised to search its files for anything it had on them
and their connection to the cocaine traffickers, and the
cable ended by saying that the CIA station was "concerned
that this kind of uncoordinated activity (i.e. the assistant
U.S. attorney and FBI visit and depositions) could have
serious implications for anti-Sandinista activities in Costa
Rica and elsewhere."
CIA headquarters discovered that Aviles was indeed a
Contra official and had attended an August 1982
conference in Miami, where he was elected to the board of
directors of the PCNE, which was receiving CIA money.
Various branches of the CIA were alerted, and the
agency sprang into action. The Justice Department and the
federal prosecutor handling the Zavala case, CIA officials
decided, needed to be "discreetly approached."
On August 3, 1984, CIA headquarters instructed the
Costa Rican station to keep away from Aviles and
Rappaccioli, "to avoid giving Zavala's defense attorneys a
possible issue." Langley reassured the nervous Costa
Rican station that "there was no reason to believe that
Zavala's attorneys knew Rappaccioli had any association

===== PDF PAGE 159 =====
with CIA." The whole thing could just blow over "if planned
legal action is successful," the cable said.
CIA lawyer Lee S. Strickland flew into San Francisco
from Washington, and on August 7, 1984, he sat down with
prosecutor Mark Zanides and had what Zanides recalled
as an "opaque conversation" with him. The CIA, Strickland
told him, "would be immensely grateful if these depositions
did not go forward." But Strickland "provided little or no
explanation regarding what the CIA's interests were in the
case," Zanides said. Strickland appeared "very concerned
about the public identification of the individuals who were to
be deposed."
There was one problem, however. Neither the CIA nor
the prosecutor knew what was in the letters the Contras
sent to the judge. Before they could do anything, they
needed to see those letters.
That afternoon Zanides filed a motion asking Peckham
to unseal the Contras' letters so government lawyers could
read them. "Keeping it under seal at this point would result
only in preventing the counsel for the United States from
preparing properly for the deposition," he wrote. "At
present the government is undertaking an inquiry with
respect to the identities of these persons and counsel for
the government is attempting to ascertain precisely what
the facts are."
At a hearing the next day, Zanides wanted to clarify the
government's position. When he asked for the records to
be unsealed, he told Peckham, he hadn't meant for the
general public to be able to read them. All he was asking
for was that the documents be shown to government
lawyers under a protective order.
Judge Peckham bristled at the prosecutor's suggestion.
"I think it ought to be made public," he said. "Why should

===== PDF PAGE 160 =====
we not make it public? What is there left to keep—"
"Your Honor," Zanides interrupted, "before I could
comment on that—"
But the judge abruptly cut off the prosecutor.
"I am going to make it public. If it is unsealed it is going
to be public," he warned.
"Well, as Your Honor knows, I can't comment since I
really haven't seen those materials," Zanides said.
"I am ordering it made public. It is unsealed," the judge
said. "I don't have to put it that way. I will just order it
unsealed."
"Very well," Zanides replied. "May I obtain a copy from
your clerk this morning?"
"Certainly," the judge said, taking out his pen. "So I will
sign this. . .there is no restriction on the public disclosure of
this."
When Strickland and Zanides saw the letters the two CIA
operatives had sent to Peckham, their faces must have
fallen. They had put the Contras right in the middle of the
biggest cocaine bust in California history. Zanides went
running back to Judge Peckham with a request that he
make the documents secret again, until the government
could make a private "presentation to the court why the
record re Costa Rica depositions should not be made
public." Zavala's attorneys weren't invited.
Whatever the Justice Department told Peckham during
the private meeting in his chambers, it worked. Peckham
issued an order that afternoon sealing up the records he'd
made public only that morning. Five days later Zanides filed
a three-paragraph agreement that said simply that the
"United States will not introduce the $36,020 in United
States currency seized from the residence of Julio Zavala"
and "agrees to return said currency to Julio Zavala." In

===== PDF PAGE 161 =====
exchange, the agreement stated, Zavala would not press
the issue of the Costa Rican depositions.
"As the matter stands now," a CIA cable stated, "CIA
equities are fully protected." The cable bemoaned the fact
that both Aviles and Rappaccioli "planned to testify at their
deposition as to the source of the money in question. We
can only guess at what other testimony may have been
forthcoming."
A U.S. embassy official in Costa Rica, after hearing that
the depositions had been called off, quipped that they "had
been canceled by The Funny Farm." His remark quickly got
back to Langley, which instructed its Costa Rican agents to
tell the diplomat "that CIA had no hand in cancellation of the
trip."
Years later, when questioned about the case by the
author, former U.S. Attorney Russoniello said the only
reason he agreed to return the drug dealer's cash was
because it would have cost the government too much
money to go to Costa Rica and take two depositions.
There never was any evidence to suggest that the Contras
were involved with the drug ring, he insisted. But even the
Justice Department's Inspector General didn't buy that.
After questioning Russioniello, the IG concluded that the
CIA had intervened with the prosecutor because of "a
desire to protect the public image of the Contras or the
CIA. . .the CIA considered the potential press coverage of
a Contra-drug link to be a sufficient reason to attempt to
influence the decision to return the money to Zavala." CIA
cables further described Russioniello as "most deferential
to our interests."
In addition, there was a stack of telephone records
linking the Contras directly to the drug ring, which
Russioniello never released or publicly admitted. "A

===== PDF PAGE 162 =====
defendant in the Frogman case had made 51 phone calls
to the FDN office in San Francisco," a secret 1987 DEA
report states, noting that one of its confidential informants
had met with the traffickers at the FDN's office.
The FBI agent who investigated the case, David Alba,
had little doubt the CIA was behind Russioniello's decision
to give back the drug money. "Zavala or someone he was
working with was involved with the CIA," Alba told Justice
Department inspectors in 1997.
Even after the depositions were canceled, the agency
continued to fret that its dirty secrets would somehow leak
out. CIA officials were instructed to "monitor the
prosecution closely so that any further disclosures or
allegations by defendant or his confidants can be
deflected." CIA lawyer Strickland argued in a memo that
the Costa Rican station "must be made aware of the
potential for disaster. While the allegations may be entirely
false, there are sufficient factual details which would cause
certain damage to our image and program in Central
America." A memo from CIA general counsel Stanley
Sporkin observed, "This matter raises obvious questions
concerning the people we are supporting in Central
America."
In a lengthy cable to the Costa Rican station on August
24, 1984, Strickland detailed his concerns. "While this
particular aspect was successfully resolved, the possibility
of potential damage to CIA interests was not lost on the
U.S. Attorney or headquarters. By virtue of Rappaccioli's
relationship as a former covert action asset and a member
of board of directors of a Contra organization, Aviles' role
as director of the Contra support group office in San Jose,
and their formal claim of drug-tainted money, case could be
made that CIA funds are being diverted by CIA assets into

===== PDF PAGE 163 =====
the drug trade," he wrote. "Indeed, close relationship
between Zavala, a convicted drug dealer, and Rappaccioli
and Aviles could prove most damaging especially if any
relationship, no matter how indirect, were to continue. As
long as Rappaccioli and Aviles continue to play any role in
the anti-Sandinista movement, any public disclosure of the
foregoing would have as a certain element the fact that they
were 'linked to' or 'assets of' CIA."
Strickland told the Costa Rican station to look into
whether the Contras were dealing drugs but warned "no
action other than discreet inquiries should be undertaken
without headquarters approval."
What the CIA found was censored from the report, but
the agency clearly didn't cut its ties with the two
Nicaraguans. Aviles, in 1985, was appointed to the general
staff of UDN-FARN. A 1988 State Department biography of
Vicente Rappaccioli identified him as the secretary of the
Contras' political division. Incredibly, the 1998 CIA
Inspector General's report that contained all the cables
claimed Aviles and Rappaccioli really hadn't worked for the
CIA after all. The repeated references to them as CIA
assets in the 1984 cables were mistakes, the IG claimed.
In October 1984 the federal government returned
$36,020 to Aviles and Zavala. And not a moment too soon:
eight days after the check was issued, the U.S. Congress
—outraged by the disclosure that the CIA and the Contras
had dropped antiship mines in Nicaraguan harbors—cut off
all CIA funding for the Contras.
Despite the CIA's efforts to keep Contra involvement in
the so-called Frogman case from becoming public, some
of the truth got out when Carlos Cabezas took the witness
stand in late 1984 against his ex-brother-in-law. Under
oath, and as a U.S. government witness, Cabezas

===== PDF PAGE 164 =====
admitted that some of the cocaine money was going to the
Contras. He told the jury of his meetings with Horacio
Pereira, and of Pereira's nervousness over the Contras'
profits being misspent by the hard-drinking Zavala. Pages
from the ledger books in which Cabezas kept track of the
Contras' cocaine were introduced into evidence and made
public, showing cocaine transactions with Contra official
Fernando Sanchez.
Zavala was convicted of trafficking and sentenced to
prison. Cabezas's testimony went unchallenged. It also
went unreported. Though the San Francisco news media
had fairly swooned when Cabezas and Zavala were
arrested, not a single reporter stuck around to cover the
trial. The evidence of Contra involvement in cocaine
trafficking in San Francisco would lie undisturbed in a
federal court file for another two years.

===== PDF PAGE 165 =====
"They were doing their patriotic duty"
U
nlike Carlos Cabezas, who walked into an existing
cocaine sales operation and began dealing dope the next
day, Danilo Blandón was forced to make his own way,
finding his own buyers in a city he really didn't know. If he
had been in San Francisco, it would have been a different
story. Meneses's drug network there was well established
and, according to Blandón, flourishing. After distributing
900 kilos—nearly one ton—in 1981, Blandón said,
Meneses's business in San Francisco "got bigger and
bigger, because all the family was working at that time with
him, in the drug business."
By contrast, Meneses's network in Los Angeles was of
more recent origin and had been dealt a serious blow in
late 1981 with the arrest and subsequent flight of his West
Covina dealer, Julio Bermúdez, who had been moving
about twenty kilos a month before he was arrested.
While Blandón struggled to establish a customer base,
he made himself useful to the Meneses organization in
other ways. He became "like a secretary for Mr. Meneses,
because he already saw that I could do a lot for him. He
started telling me, 'Go out and collect some money to
somebody else in L.A.' and I started doing it, and he started
getting trust, trusting in me."
Blandón said he would not only pick up money from
customers in L.A. but deliver it as well, taking cash from
Meneses to pay his cocaine suppliers in Los Angeles, men
Blandón described as Colombians. He also began
keeping the books for the L.A. drug operation, describing
himself as Meneses's "administrator."
"I wasn't working with him in San Francisco. He was

===== PDF PAGE 166 =====
working alone," Blandón said. "I keeping the books from
L.A."
"You were keeping his books in L.A.?" Blandón was
asked.
"Yes."
"So he was up in San Francisco, and you're down here in
L.A.?"
"Yes."
"So you were running his Los Angeles operation, isn't
that correct?"
"Yes," Blandón said. "But remember, we were running
just a—whatever we were running in L.A. goes—the profit
is—was going to the Contra revolution. I don't know from
San Francisco."
The relationship between Blandón and Meneses quickly
transcended the cocaine business. Meneses opened up a
restaurant on Hoover Street in East Los Angeles, which
Blandón helped oversee, called the Chicalina. Blandón
described the establishment somewhat curiously to a
federal grand jury, calling it a "marketing" operation. "That
was not my restaurant. That was Meneses's restaurant," he
said, but he admitted that he'd told others he was one of the
owners.
Another of Blandón's jobs involved looking after the
welfare of Meneses's wife and children. Meneses had sent
them from San Francisco to L.A. after he started yet
another affair. In 1982, Blandón said, Meneses "was in
love" with a woman in South San Francisco named Blanca
Margarita Castano, a Nicaraguan who would later become
his fifth wife.
Blanca was a cousin of a top Sandinista official, Bayardo
Arce Castano, one of the Nicaraguan government's nine
commandantes and one of the most hard-line radicals

===== PDF PAGE 167 =====
among them. Blanca's apartment near the Cow Palace, an
old auditorium made famous by Jefferson Airplane, was
used to store cocaine. "I went one time to pick it up right
there," Blandón said.
A frequent houseguest of Meneses during this period
was John Lacome, a San Franciscan who was friendly with
Norwin's nephews, Jaime and Jairo. Lacome said he lived
at Meneses's home for long periods during the early 1980s,
and told of cocaine-fueled parties that went on for days.
Meneses appeared totally unafraid of being arrested;
"There was a woman he was selling to, and this woman
would drive by his house, honk, and he'd come walking out
to the street with two kilos in his hands, in broad daylight,
and give them to her," Lacome said.
Meneses was fond of expensive leisure suits, wore a
fairly obvious toupee, and took pains to surround himself
with women, as did his nephews. A former girlfriend of
Jaime Meneses, Gloria Lopez, said the nephews all drove
flashy new cars, which they would trade in as soon as they
tired of them. That was how she first noticed Jaime, she
said. She was tending bar in the Mission District, and he
would drive up in a different new car every couple weeks.
Lopez, who later had a child with Jaime Meneses, said
Jaime started off driving trucks for his uncle Norwin right out
of high school. Initially the loads were military uniforms; then
he graduated to moving a more lucrative product—and
started earning a substantially bigger paycheck.
"You give a kid like that out of high school all that money,
and what do you think is going to happen?" Lopez asked. "I
can't say that I blame Jaime for what he did. Then. I blame
him for a lot of things that happened later though."
Jaime's father, Jaime Sr., was also pressed into service
for the cause, hauling money to Central America for brother

===== PDF PAGE 168 =====
Norwin. "Jaime Sr., I respected him very much," Rafael
Cornejo said. "He really wasn't too much involved with
drugs. He had a brake factory in Nicaragua before the
revolution, called FRICA. He was a very decent man.
During, I can't remember which year, he was incarcerated
in the U.S., 1984–85. . .. He'd been stopped at the border
with $70,000 or something. He was taking the money down
to Nicaragua. Once I told him, 'Look, Jaime, let me do that
for you.' But he said, no, he could do just fine." Jaime
Meneses Sr. was murdered in 1990 in the offices of his
money-changing business—FRECERSA—in San Jose,
Costa Rica.
Such were the hazards of being a Meneses. So it was
not surprising that when Maritza Meneses and her children
arrived in L.A. in 1982, someone would be assigned to
watch over them and help them along. Norwin gave Danilo
the job.
In August 1982 Blandón and Maritza Meneses set up a
business together in Los Angeles, a company they named
JDM Artwork Inc. The name was an acronym made up of
the first initials of the incorporators' first names: Josefa
Maria Pelligatti, a friend of the Meneseses; Danilo
Blandón; and Maritza Meneses.
The company did silk screen printing, and Blandón said
it was started by Meneses to provide an income for his
relocated family. But there may have been other motives
behind Meneses's investment in the silk-screening
business. The company quickly became part of the
Contras' support network in Los Angeles. ARDE
commander Eden Pastora said he visited the firm during a
trip he made to L.A. in 1982, and it printed up T-shirts with
his likeness on them. Former Pastora aide Carol Prado
claimed that a Los Angeles printing company connected to

===== PDF PAGE 169 =====
Blandón was used to launder money from drug sales for the
Contras.
Another former associate of Blandón, a Puerto Rican
man convicted of counterfeiting U.S. currency, believed that
the company also dabbled in funny money, printing up fake
twenty-dollar bills that provided operating cash for the FDN.
The former associate produced Polaroid photographs that
showed him at work in an office with FDN banners and
slogans on the wall, and a picture of Blandón in the same
office, smiling, his arms thrown over the shoulders of other
laughing Hispanic men. A blue-and-white FDN flag was
clearly visible on the wall.
The associate's claims of counterfeiting could not be
independently corroborated, but according to CIA cables
filed in federal court, the CIA had information by 1984 that
Norwin Meneses was involved in counterfeiting—both
American dollars and Costa Rican 
colones
. In a 1986
interview, Meneses said he allowed FDN members to use
his wife's Los Angeles T-shirt factory as a meeting place.
As the Contra support organizations in San Francisco
and L.A. grew more active, Meneses's role with the FDN
became much more public. Former FDN director Edgar
Chamorro told the 
San Francisco Examiner
 in 1986 that
he and FDN director Frank Arana flew to San Francisco in
October 1982 to select local leaders for the FDN's support
committee there. Meneses attended the organizational
meeting, standing quietly in the back of the auto body shop
where the meeting was held. Meneses "appeared like a
fund-raiser, an organizer," Chamorro told the paper. The
next day, Chamorro said, Meneses helped set up a similar
meeting in Los Angeles, providing refreshments
beforehand and throwing a party afterward.
"He was one of the main contacts in L.A.," Chamorro told

===== PDF PAGE 170 =====
Examiner
 reporter Seth Rosenfeld. "He was in charge of
the organization of the L.A. meeting, the reception. He
drove us to the place. He gave us the schedule for that day.
He knew people, he was recommending names" (for
leadership positions in the L.A. organization).
Renato Pena Cabrera, the FDN's San Francisco
representative, told federal investigators in 1997 that he
was present "on many occasions" when Meneses
telephoned FDN commander Enrique Bermúdez in
Honduras. "Meneses told Pena of Bermúdez's requests for
such things as gun silencers (which Meneses obtained in
Los Angeles), cross bows, and other military equipment for
the Contras." Meneses sometimes personally delivered the
supplies to the Contras, Pena said; other times he had
contacts in Miami and Los Angeles forward them to friendly
Honduran authorities.
"Meneses would bring [back] military information,
bulletins, and communiques from Bermúdez that Pena
would put into newsletters and give to the press and Contra
sympathizers," a summary of Pena's interview states.
In a recent interview with the CIA, Meneses said that
"between 1983 and 1984, his primary role with the
California sympathizers was to help recruit personnel for
the movement. Meneses says he was asked by Bermúdez
to attempt to recruit Nicaraguans in exile and others who
were supporters of the Contra movement." The drug lord
told the agency's internal investigators that "he was not
directed to recruit people with any specific skills, such as
pilots or doctors, but was simply told to seek out anyone
who wanted to join with the FDN. Meneses states that he
was a member of an FDN fund-raising committee, but was
not the committee's head." He did not raise much cash but
was "involved in 1985 in attempting to obtain material

===== PDF PAGE 171 =====
support, medical and general supplies" for the Contras.
When asked by the author in 1996 where he got the
money to pay for these war materials, Meneses gave a
slight smile. "There was money available for these
purchases," he said.
Meneses associate Rafael Cornejo said he attended
some of the parties Meneses hosted for the FDN at his
homes in the San Francisco area.
"You can say what you want about that man, but his heart
and soul was into the movement, and that was his priority
more than anything else," said Cornejo, whose father had
been a sergeant in Somoza's National Guard. "It's kind of
hard to be kicked out of your own country and that's what
his passion was. He was straight-up pro-Somocista."
Blandón complained that Meneses was so tightfisted
with the cash he was raising for the Contras that he was
making little or no money selling cocaine. "I didn't make any
money, you know. It was only for the people in the
mountains, you know, for the Contra Revolution," Blandón
said. Meneses allowed him to keep enough "just to pay the
rent and to pay the food for my daughter. . .just to pay my
expenses." Among the Nicaraguan exile community, it was
strongly suspected that Meneses was dealing cocaine for
the Contras. And it was not unadmired. Somoza's former
secretary, Juan C. Wong, one of the first Nicaraguan exiles
to begin recruiting ex-
Guardia
 men to join the Contras, said
he visited Meneses in San Francisco in 1983. "It's true, it
was widely spread around that he was involved with drugs,"
said Wong, a University of San Francisco grad who knew
the Meneses family from before the revolution. "And I don't
doubt that they wanted to raise money for the FDN. That's
only natural. They were doing their patriotic duty."
Bradley Brunon, Blandón's lawyer, said Blandón was one

===== PDF PAGE 172 =====
of several former Somoza supporters dealing cocaine in
L.A. in the early 1980s. He met Blandón while defending a
middle-class Nicaraguan exile accused of drug trafficking.
"People were being arrested who had high government
connections, or high military connections, in the Somoza
regime, who didn't have any particular lifestyle consistent
with being cocaine dealers, didn't have a background
consistent with that, but they were highly politicized
individuals," Brunon said. "And the only politics I was aware
that they were involved with was this attempt to fund the
Contra revolutionary insurgency."
Brunon said it was his understanding that "the Contras,
and I don't even know if they were known as that then. . .had
no above-the-line funding. Everything was sub rosa and
one of the ways they were trying to raise money was
importing cocaine. That was information that I didn't
specifically receive from Blandón, but that I had surmised
based on a series of events that were happening."
Blandón was fairly close-mouthed about his role with the
Contras, according to Brunon. "I don't know the formal
particulars of it other than there was this kind of
atmosphere of CIA and clandestine activities and so forth
that surrounded him when I met him," Brunon said of his
longtime client. "He never was specific. I mean, I believed
he was involved with the Contras. I don't think there's any
doubt about that. Beyond that, I never got into the
particulars with him, because I didn't have a need to know
at that point."
An air of mystery also surrounded another associate of
Blandón, an odd, cherubic, balding man in his mid-thirties
Blandón picked up as a partner shortly after going to work
for Meneses. The man would remain at Blandón's side for
seven years, though mostly in the shadows. Considering

===== PDF PAGE 173 =====
his work history and the activities he was involved with at
the time, his appearance in the Nicaraguan's cocaine
trafficking entourage is both strange and worrisome. He
would give Blandón's drug ring a whole new sideline—
weapons and sophisticated electronics equipment—and a
whole new smell, the unmistakable aroma of the U.S.
intelligence community.
Brad Brunon met him in 1986, when he showed up
unannounced at the lawyer's office and began asking very
detailed questions about Blandón's background. "It was just
like the hair on the back of your neck goes up. What does
this guy want? What's he doing here? Is he investigating
Blandón?" Brunon said. "I never knew what his true role
was. I mean, he covertly insinuated that he was CIA. At
least, if not a sworn member, whatever the hell they do to
get to become employees—some sort of operative."
Brunon "really didn't have much communication with the guy
because he scared me."
His name was Ronald Jay Lister, a southern California
native who began working as a cocaine dealer and money
hauler for Blandón in late 1981 or early 1982, just as the
CIA was taking over the funding and operations of the
newly formed FDN. The CIA has publicly denied any
relationship with the man.
Before launching his life of crime as Danilo Blandón's
faithful sidekick, Ronald Lister had been a police officer of
one sort or another for nearly fifteen years. He'd started out
as a military policeman for the U.S. Army and U.S. Army
Reserve, stationed in Orange County with the 414th Military
Police company. His service records show he had a
degree in political science and was trained in processing
prisoners of war captured during the Vietnam conflict. He
regularly received excellent fitness reports. While an army

===== PDF PAGE 174 =====
reservist, Lister hired on as an officer with the police
department of Maywood, a small suburb of Los Angeles
that once employed a handful of uniformed patrolmen. He
was also a reserve deputy for the L.A. County Sheriff's
Office at the same time.
Lister was called to active duty in the army for a few
months in 1969, and later, when his enlistment ended, he
volunteered for the U.S. Coast Guard, serving as a reserve
port security officer at Terminal Island, in San Pedro,
California. In late 1973 he found a home with the Laguna
Beach Police Department, which patrols a posh Orange
County suburb south of Los Angeles. There, among the rich
and famous, he rose through the ranks to become a
detective in the burglary division.
Lieutenant Danielle Adams said Lister was a veteran by
the time she arrived in burglary; her recollection of him was
that he was "always very successful, very tenacious and got
the job done."
His former chief, Neil Purcell, who was on the hiring
board that gave Lister his job, remembers him differently.
"You hear lots of things about Ron Lister," Purcell said.
"The man, in my opinion, is a lying, conniving, manipulative
person who likes to play with people's minds. He's very
evasive and loves living on the edge. He's the biggest
bullshitter that has ever been placed on this earth."
Toward the end of Lister's twelve-year stint with the
police department, he was traveling in some pretty fast
company. "When he worked here, that silly son of a gun
was in with—what do they call themselves?—the Royal
Highnesses from Iran!" Purcell recalled with a hoot.
"Sporting Rolex watches for himself and his wife. Getting
wined and dined by these people until finally they [the
Iranians] were asked to leave this country. Anything. He

===== PDF PAGE 175 =====
threw out names and organizations. He's a very bright guy.
As far as intelligence, he's very, very smart." It was the one
point upon which Adams and Purcell agreed.
"Don't ever underestimate him," Adams warned. "He's
very, very bright and very tenacious."
Both Adams and Purcell said Lister became involved in
private security work on the side toward the end of 1979.
He quit the Laguna Beach police department in May 1980
to pursue that vocation full-time. "He was in the alarm
business, is what he originally started off as," Adams
recalled. "And he had some muckety-mucks from the Arab
countries, so he says, in his alarm business and this was
getting pretty elaborate, and that's when he left the police
department. I know there was a lot of involvement and a lot
of travel while he was still here."
A few weeks before he resigned, corporate records
show, Lister incorporated a company called Pyramid
International Security Consultants Inc., based in Newport
Beach. What Pyramid was doing between 1980 and 1981
is not known, but Lister stated that this was around the time
he first met Blandón, "through a Beverly Hills business
connection." He said Blandón introduced him to Norwin
Meneses, and that he "provided physical security for both
men," who "always paid him in cash."
Soon after Lister paired up with Blandón and Meneses,
his security company began doing business overseas.
Blandón told Justice Department interviewers that he and
Meneses "entered into an informal partnership [with Lister]
for the purpose of selling weapons abroad," specifically in
El Salvador. Blandón said the plan was for Lister, Blandón,
and Meneses "to get their share of the profits in weapons,
which they would then give to the Contras."
Blandón's attorney, Brad Brunon, described Lister as

===== PDF PAGE 176 =====
"one of these guys who would boast about having bugging
capabilities, would boast about having wiretap capabilities,
you could get any information any time, one of those. . .I-
can-uplink-to-the-satellite sort of guy."
Christopher W. Moore, a former reserve Laguna Beach
police officer who met Lister in 1979, said Lister hired him
as an office manager in 1982 while Moore was working his
way through law school. "I think I was actually an officer in
Pyramid International. Ron put my name down as treasurer
or director or something because he needed to have some
directors for the incorporation papers." Moore confirmed
that Lister had extensive business dealings in Central
America, specifically in El Salvador. Lister explained his
travels there to Moore as involving gun running and "helping
the Contras, supposedly on behalf of the [U.S.] government.
I remember the longest conversations with him—'I'm
protected. You're working for the government. Don't worry
about anything. I'm protected, I'm protected.' I don't know if
that was true or not, but I do know that we stopped worrying
about domestic security jobs and started concentrating on
foreign ones."
During the early 1980s, when Lister began doing
business there, El Salvador was wracked by a vicious civil
war and murderous political repression. A tenacious
revolutionary guerrilla group, the FMLN, had been running
circles around the country's corrupt and inefficient military.
The rebels' fight was being assisted by the Sandinistas in
Nicaragua, who have admitted supplying them with tons of
Eastern Bloc arms and ammunition.
The Reagan administration was far more concerned
about what was happening in El Salvador than they were
about Nicaragua, which Reagan's advisers considered
already "lost" to the Communists. One of Reagan's top

===== PDF PAGE 177 =====
foreign policy objectives in 1981 and 1982 was to keep
what had happened in Nicaragua from spreading to El
Salvador, and the administration pushed hard for increased
military and economic support for the beleaguered
Salvadoran government, particularly after a January 1982
rebel attack on the main military airport in El Salvador
demolished dozens of aircraft.
"Indeed, what came to be known years later as the
'Reagan Doctrine' may have been born in El Salvador in
1982," former Reagan State Department official Robert
Kagan wrote in 1996. Halting Sandinista arms shipments
to El Salvador was the official reason CIA director William
Casey gave to Congress when he informed lawmakers of
Reagan's decision in late 1981 to turn the CIA loose in
Nicaragua. The Contras were being trained to police the
borders to make sure no Sandinista arms got out to the
FMLN, Casey claimed.
Like many of the things the CIA said about the Contras,
that explanation was a lie, a smoke screen to hide the
agency's true agenda, which was to run a full-scale covert
war against the Sandinistas. The Reagan administration
found its Salvadoran aid program a tough sell in Congress
because of the horrendous human rights abuses then
occurring in the country. Frustrated by its inability to crush
the FMLN guerrillas in the field despite an overwhelming
firepower advantage, elements of the Salvadoran
government were striking back at the rebels by murdering
thousands of their supporters with death squads—right-
wing, quasi-military posses that would snatch suspected
rebel sympathizers off the streets and leave their mutilated
bodies on the outskirts of town a few days later. At the
height of this campaign, residents of the capital city of San
Salvador would wake up to find forty new bodies every

===== PDF PAGE 178 =====
morning.
The Salvadoran government officially denied any
connection with the death squads, but the denials rang
hollow in Washington, even among Reagan's stalwarts.
"Under the guise of anti-Communism, the death squads
terrorized the entire country—murdering nuns, teachers,
labor organizers, political opponents and thousands of
other civilians," Lieutenant Colonel Oliver North wrote in his
1991 memoirs, 
Under Fire
.
North wrote that it was clear most of the death squad
activity was the responsibility of the ultraright ARENA party
and its leader, former Salvadoran army major Roberto
D'Aubuisson. D'Aubuisson was reportedly running one of
the death squads linked to the assassination of San
Salvador's Archbishop Oscar Romero—allegedly by hit
men from the FDN's predecessor, the Legion of
September 15.
The official whose men were committing some of the
worst abuses was a $90,000-a-year CIA asset, Colonel
Nicholas Carranza, head of the government's feared
Treasury Police. According to one account, CIA director
Casey met personally with Carranza in the summer of 1983
and told him to "knock it off," or the CIA would kick him off
the payroll.
In phone conversations with Lister, Christopher Moore
learned that his boss was "supposedly doing security
consulting for the government of El Salvador." In June of
1982 Lister asked Moore to fly down and "babysit" a
government contract for a few days while Lister returned to
the United States to take care of some unspecified
business.
Moore agreed, and was off on what he would call the
strangest trip of his life.

===== PDF PAGE 179 =====
Accompanying him on the eleven-day excursion, Moore
said, was a man who introduced himself as the Salvadoran
consul in Los Angeles. Since Moore spoke little Spanish,
the man served as Moore's guide and interpreter. "They
flew me down to this airbase that the French were building,
and I had to take pictures of it," Moore said; it was his
impression that Pyramid was bidding on a contract to
provide security for the base. When he returned to El
Salvador's capital, San Salvador, he settled into the
downtown Ramada Inn. Then he and the Salvadoran consul
attended a series of meetings with none other than Major
Roberto D'Aubuisson. "That was probably the highlight of
my life at that point," chuckled Moore, now an attorney in
Los Angeles. "There I was, a reserve police officer who'd
only been in the country for a couple days, and I was sitting
in this office in downtown San Salvador across the desk
from the man who ran the death squads. He had a gun lying
on the top of his desk and had these filing cabinets pushed
up against the windows of the office so nobody could shoot
through them."
At another meeting, Moore and D'Aubuisson were joined
by Ray Prendes, the newly elected head of the Salvadoran
Assembly and a powerful figure in the ruling Christian
Democratic party. Prendes was on friendly terms with
D'Aubuisson, Moore said, and both appeared to have
some role in the award of the security contract Lister was
seeking.
Lister, in an interview with police, "said that Moore was a
good kid who had gone down to El Salvador to take
pictures of poorly planned and constructed security work at
a port on the southwest tip of El Salvador."
Moore was unsure if Lister's company ever got the
security contract for the airbase, but he thought not. He left

===== PDF PAGE 180 =====
Lister's employ in 1983, soon after his boss began dealing
in heavy weapons. "Ron was an arms dealer and was
buying these semiautomatics, the ones the bad guys use,
called MAC-10s. He also had semiautomatic Uzis, and he
had gotten involved in selling something called RAW, which
was a rifle-fired hand grenade. He was into a lot of things."
Moore wasn't exaggerating. Between 1983 and 1986,
the FBI opened up five separate investigations of Lister, all
of which dealt with allegations of trafficking in illegal
weapons and high-tech devices with foreign governments.
In September 1983, Lister's and Blandón's company,
Pyramid International, came under FBI scrutiny for
Neutrality Act violations, which allegedly involved "the sale
of weapons to El Salvador and the loan of money from
Saudi Arabia to the Salvadoran government. Lister was
also alleged to be attempting to sell arms to several other
countries." Considering the fact that the Saudi government
was heavily involved in financing covert operations for the
Reagan Administration during the 1980s, it is perhaps not
surprising that "no further information was ever developed"
by the FBI. The Justice Department offered no explanation
for why that probe was abandoned.
Lister admits his company was dealing guns in El
Salvador. He told Justice Department investigators that
Blandón and Meneses "were the ones that opened the
doors down there. . .[they] had many connections in El
Salvador. . .from their drug trafficking business." Lister sold
Blandón numerous machine pistols, which Blandón told him
he was sending to the Contras. "Anything that I gave him
was for the purpose of the Contras," Lister insisted.
An FBI informant told Justice Department inspectors that
Norwin Meneses had spoken of obtaining night vision
scopes from Lister in 1982, which the drug lord planned to

===== PDF PAGE 181 =====
sell to the Salvadoran government. Meneses intended to
"use the proceeds from the night scopes to aid the
Contras," the informant reported, but said the deal fell
through.
In October 1982, Pyramid International made a security
proposal to Salvadoran defense minister General Jose
Guillermo Garcia, a man linked by one human rights
organization to death squad activities and the slaughter of
hundreds of peasants at a village called El Mozote in
December 1981.
Pyramid's proposal, which L.A. police found in a 1986
drug raid, was written in Spanish and had "Confidential"
stamped all over the front of it. It was entitled "Technical
Proposal for an Urgent Project to Implement an Integral
Security System for the Defence Ministry and the Major
General of the Armed Forces of the Republic of El
Salvador." The thick report described Pyramid as a unique
consulting firm "dedicated to the maintenance of freedom,
independence and free enterprise." The company only
served clients "with a similar political orientation."
That political orientation was spelled out in no uncertain
terms: Pyramid International Security Consultants would
"assist the new government in its goal to combat the
tyrannical forces of the left side, promoted and assisted by
the current governments of Nicaragua, Cuba and the Soviet
Union."
Lister's company outlined a variety of services it would
provide for the sum of $189,911: bodyguard and armed
escort services for Salvadoran public officials, including the
president and top political and military leaders; protecting
sensitive installations from sabotage and terrorism; and
installing sophisticated electronic technology, including
radio sensors and explosives detectors, at key military and

===== PDF PAGE 182 =====
industrial installations. Lister later explained the document
as "a proposal to the current government in El Salvador to
implement programs to assist them in different types of
security operations, counter-measures type operations,
dealing with the types of problems they had. . .. We did a
whole study down there."
But one of Lister's associates at the time, a San Diego
arms manufacturer, said Pyramid's security proposal was
actually just a cover for another operation, a covert one
directed by the CIA. The company's real mission in El
Salvador, he said, was to set up a weapons manufacturing
facility to supply guns to the Contras in neighboring
Honduras. In a series of interviews with investigative
reporter Nick Schou of the 
L.A. Weekly
 in 1996 and 1997,
arms maker Timothy LaFrance described Pyramid
International as "a private vendor that the CIA used to do
things [the agency] couldn't do." LaFrance, whose
handiwork is so highly regarded that he has created
custom-made weapons for 
Rambo
 films and episodes of
Miami Vice
, said he accompanied Lister to El Salvador at
least twice, becoming involved as a weapons specialist
and helping to set up facilities to make pistols for the
Contras.
Among the series of nameless biographies attached to
Pyramid's proposal to the Salvadoran government, one
employee is identified a "specialist in the design and
manufacture of unique weapons." Lister's former office
manager, Chris Moore, confirmed that "one of his [Lister's]
friends, and I can't recall the name, was an arms maker in
San Diego. He had a custom gun shop down there."
LaFrance, who makes and modifies exotic automatic
weapons for the military and law enforcement agencies in
his San Diego manufacturing facility, was convinced

===== PDF PAGE 183 =====
Lister's consulting company had friends in high places.
When he applied in Pyramid's name for a State
Department permit to take high-powered weapons out of
the United States, for example, LaFrance said, "It came
back approved in two days. Usually it takes three months.
We went down to Central America with two giant boxes full
of machine guns and ammunition."
LaFrance told Schou that their cover story for the trip was
that they were there "to provide security, armor-proofing for
vehicles, limos and homes. My end was the weapons [and]
how to make a three-car stop if you're shot at." But the real
purpose, LaFrance said, was to "set up an operation in El
Salvador that would allow us to get around U.S. laws and
supply the Contras with guns. It's much easier to build the
weapons down there and that's eventually what we did."
Pyramid's security proposal discusses the company's
unique ability "to design and manufacture special
equipment—at the point—and in any part of the world, in
the majority of cases saving their foreign clients important
sums in currency."
According to LaFrance, the Pyramid team moved into a
mass-transit center run by the military in downtown San
Salvador. "That's where we made the weapons. You could
have 50 guys working in a machine shop and nobody would
know it," he said. After the finished guns were transported
to a Salvadoran military airstrip in Morazon province, they
were airlifted to Contra camps in Honduras. "We made
almost all of our drops by helicopter, buzzing the treetops,"
LaFrance said.
While LaFrance's story is by its nature difficult to
corroborate, some independent documentation suggests
he was definitely the man to see in the early 1980s if one
needed to build a weapons plant. In May 1983 LaFrance

===== PDF PAGE 184 =====
was solicited by the tiny Cabazon Indian tribe in southern
California to build an arms factory on their desolate,
tumbleweed-strewn Riverside County reservation. "We
need the know-how from an organization engaged in the
manufacturing of armaments of various types, all consisting
of technology not currently found on the marketplace," the
Cabazons' letter to LaFrance Specialties stated. Another
letter spelled out precisely what the Cabazons were looking
to build: "A 9-mm machine pistol, an assault rifle with laser
sighting, a long-distance sniper rifle, a portable rocket
system, a night-vision scope, and a battlefield
communications system 'that cannot be detected by current
technology.'"
According to the 
San Francisco Chronicle
, the
Cabazons were working on "a series of international
military and security projects that seem to be lifted from the
pages of a spy novel." The tribal administrator was a man
who claimed to have long experience working for the CIA,
helping out on the agency's Chilean destabilization
program in the 1970s. He had paired the tribe up with
Wackenhut International Inc., a security firm the 
Chronicle
described as being "led by former officials of the CIA, the
FBI, National Security Agency, Defense Department and
federal law enforcement."
Wackenhut was very active in El Salvador during the
Contra war, providing employees to protect the U.S.
embassy and other installations, and doing "things you
wouldn't want your mother to know about," one Wackenhut
employee told 
Spy
 magazine in 1992. Apparently the firm
was using the Cabazon reservation's tax-exempt status and
its freedom from federal oversight to gain a competitive
advantage in soliciting federal weapons projects.
Freelance investigative reporter Danny Casolaro was

===== PDF PAGE 185 =====
looking into the Cabazon/Wackenhut projects as part of a
larger conspiracy investigation at the time he was found
dead in a West Virginia motel room in 1991, allegedly a
suicide victim. He had told friends he was convinced that
"spies, arms merchants and others were using the
reservation as a low-profile site on which to develop
weapons for Third World armies, including the Nicaraguan
Contras." The 
Chronicle
 stated that Contra leader Eden
Pastora had visited a firing range near the reservation for a
weapons demonstration in 1981, a claim Pastora has both
confirmed and denied on separate occasions.
In early 1994 the U.S. Justice Department announced
that it was opening "a nationwide investigation" into
Casolaro's suspicious death—a probe ordered by then-
associate attorney general Webb Hubbell. Not long
afterward Hubbell pleaded guilty to crimes he'd committed
while an Arkansas lawyer and resigned from the Justice
Department. What resulted from the Casolaro investigation,
or even whether it ever went forward, has not been made
public.
Hubbell's interest in the journalist's death may have been
more than passing curiousity. Hubbell had his own
connections to a company that was making weapons parts
for the Contras.
Tim LaFrance's story about setting up an arms factory
with Ronald Lister in El Salvador bears striking similarities
to one told by Terry Reed, a former air force intelligence
officer and FBI informant who became involved with the
CIA's Contra project in the mid-1980s. Reed, a pilot and
machine tool expert, said he was initially recruited to train
would-be Contra pilots at a clandestine airstrip near Nella,
Arkansas. Later, he claims, he was asked to help the CIA
set up secret weapons parts facilities in Arkansas and,

===== PDF PAGE 186 =====
later, in Mexico.
In his memoirs, 
Compromised
, Reed wrote that he
scouted locations and provided the corporate shell for CIA
agents working with the Contras to set up and run a
sophisticated machine-tool shop in Mexico in 1985–86, in
order to keep a supply of untraceable weapons parts
flowing to the Contras during a time when Congress had
cut off the rebels' CIA assistance. He claims CIA
operatives were shipping cocaine through the machine-tool
company he'd helped the agency set up in Guadalajara,
Mexico. One of the companies Reed worked with in
Arkansas was a small manufacturer of parking meters
called Park On Meter Inc., located in the town of
Russellville. Reed claimed that the company was secretly
manufacturing parts for M-16 rifles as a subcontractor on a
CIA weapons project to supply the Contras.
The 
Washington Post
 sent a reporter to Arkansas in
1994 to "investigate" Reed's story. While the resultant
article was a snide and ham-handed attempt to portray
Reed as a crackpot conspiracy theorist, it nonetheless
confirmed many of the basic elements of his story. "Some
of the key relationships described in the book did exist in
some form," the 
Post
 grudgingly admitted. "The Iver
Johnson arms company near Little Rock, which the book
portrays as being at the center of the gun-manufacturing
effort, did ship a load of weapons to Nicaragua through a
Mexican distributor, according to former plant engineer J.
A. Matejko. But Matejko, described in the book as part of
the CIA plan, says the rifles were M-1s, not M-16s."
Moreover, the 
Post
 found, the parking meter company
Reed named "did make some gun parts for Iver Johnson,
another relationship characterized in the book as part of the
CIA weapons scheme." But, the 
Post
 scoffed, the parts

===== PDF PAGE 187 =====
were "firing pins, not M-16 bolts as the book contends."
Park On Meter's former secretary and corporate lawyer
was Webb Hubbell, who also happens to be the brother-in-
law of the company's owner. Hubbell admitted to a 
Time
magazine reporter that POM was also making rocket
launchers.
Another similarity between the weapons operations
described by Reed and LaFrance is that they both involved
admitted drug traffickers who appeared to be working for
the U.S. government. A central figure in all of Reed's
dealings with the CIA, he wrote, was a CIA and DEA
contract agent named Adler Berriman Seal. A former
airline pilot, Seal moved in 1982 from Baton Rouge to a
tiny airfield in isolated Mena, Arkansas, Intermountain
Regional Airport, and began running drugs and weapons.
In the early 1980s, Barry Seal was one of the biggest
cocaine and marijuana importers in the southern United
States, flying loads in directly for the Medellín cartel and air-
dropping them with pinpoint precision across Louisiana,
Arkansas, and other southern states.
"Seal detailed his cocaine-smuggling activities in '81, '82
and '83. What he testified to was that he was involved in 50
trips during those three years," IRS spokesman Henry
Holms told the 
Baton Rouge State Times
 in 1986,
explaining a $29 million lien that the IRS filed against Seal
for back taxes. A letter that year from Louisiana's attorney
general to U.S. Attorney General Ed Meese said Seal
"smuggled between $3 billion and $5 billion worth of drugs
into the U.S."
Seal's farm in Baton Rouge, according to a 1983 U.S.
Customs report, was allegedly used as a drop site for
cocaine and marijuana flown into the country aboard a DC-
4 aircraft, N90201. That same plane subsequently turned

===== PDF PAGE 188 =====
up flying supplies for the Contras in 1985 through an air
cargo company the FDN hired called Hondu Carib Cargo
Inc. The operator of Hondu Carib, records show, was FDN
leader Adolfo Calero's brother, Mario Calero.
Hondu Carib's owner was pilot Frank Moss, identified in
a 1989 Senate report as having "been investigated,
although never indicted, for narcotics offenses by ten
different law enforcement agencies." The report said Moss
flew FDN supply missions for both Hondu Carib and a
Honduran air freight company called SETCO, which was
owned by Honduras's biggest drug trafficker, Juan Matta
Ballesteros.
One DC-4 Moss used to ferry Contra supplies was
seized by the DEA in March 1987 on a suspected drug run
off Florida's coast. Aboard the plane was marijuana
residue and Moss' notes which, according to a CIA cable,
contained "the names of two CIA officers and their
telephone numbers." Also found was the phone number of
Robert Owen, Oliver North's courier in Central America. (In
1985, records show, Owen reported to Oliver North that a
DC-6 owned by Mario Calero "which is being used for runs
out of New Orleans is probably being used for drug runs
into U.S.")
During the time he was dealing with Terry Reed, Seal
was also working for the DEA as a top-level informant; in
1984 he participated in a joint CIA-DEA sting operation in
an attempt to snare Sandinista government officials in drug
smuggling. Congressional records show North was being
regularly briefed by the CIA on Seal's sting operation, was
supplied with some of the evidence it produced, and
allegedly leaked the information to the press shortly before
a critical vote on Contra aid was coming up in Congress.
North maintains that his only involvement in the Seal sting

===== PDF PAGE 189 =====
against the Sandinistas was as an observer, but a
statement he gave to the FBI in June 1986 suggests that
his relationship with the trafficker was considerably more
complex than that.
On February 17, 1986, Seal was murdered in New
Orleans by Colombian hit men. Four months later, in June,
North called the FBI and claimed that there was an "active
measures program" being directed against him by the
Sandinistas. People were following him, he fretted,
directing death threats and smears against him. "North
expressed further concern that he may be targeted for
elimination by organized crime due to his alleged
involvement in drug running," a Washington-based FBI
agent wrote. North pointed to "the murder on Feb. 17, 1986
of a DEA agent, Steele [sic], on the date prior to Steele's
testifying against the Sandinistas for drug involvement."
Seal's "personal records showed him to be a contract
CIA operative both before and during his years of drug-
running in Mena in the 1980s," historian Roger Morris, a
former NSC staffer, wrote in a 1996 book, 
Partners in
Power
, about Bill and Hillary Clinton.
The same Senate subcommittee that looked into the
Contras' connections with Hondu Carib in 1988 also poked
around at Mena and concluded that "associates of Seal
who operated aircraft service businesses at the Mena,
Arkansas, airport were also the targets of grand jury probes
into narcotics trafficking. Despite the availability of
evidence sufficient for an indictment on money laundering
charges, and over the strong protests of State and federal
law enforcement officials, the cases were dropped. The
apparent reason was that the prosecution might have
revealed national security information."
Clinton's critics have charged that it was impossible for

===== PDF PAGE 190 =====
the governor of Arkansas to have been unaware of Seal's
activities at Mena. Indeed, Reed and former Arkansas
state troopers L. D. Brown and Larry Patterson, both of
whom have been critical of Clinton, insist he knew quite a
bit about it—including the fact that cocaine was involved.
Patterson, a member of Governor Clinton's security detail,
testified that he and other troopers were aware "that there
was large quantities of drugs being flown into the Mena
airport, large quantities of money, large quantities of guns,
that there was an ongoing operation training foreign people
in that area. That it was a CIA operation."
A mechanic at Mena airport, John Bender, swore in a
deposition that he saw Clinton there three times in 1985.
Ex-trooper Brown said that when he confronted Clinton
about the cocaine flights Seal was involved in, Governor
Clinton replied, "That's Lasater's deal," referring to his
close friend and campaign contributor, Little Rock bond
broker Danny Ray Lasater. In 1986 Lasater was indicted by
a federal grand jury in Little Rock on drug charges, and
Clinton's brother Roger, a cocaine addict, was named as
an unindicted coconspirator. Lasater pleaded guilty to drug
trafficking; he received a thirty-month prison sentence but
served only six months in prison. Clinton pardoned him in
1990.
Clinton's supporters have maintained that Lasater was
no drug dealer, simply a high-flying businessman who got a
little too caught up in the fast life. But that's not the way the
FBI described it in a 1988 report citing the bureau's
successful battles against major drug trafficking
organizations. According to the FBI's description of its
investigation, Lasater was part of a huge drug ring. "In
December 1986, the Little Rock, Arkansas office of the FBI
concluded a four-year Organized Crime Drug Enforcement

===== PDF PAGE 191 =====
Task Force investigation involving the cocaine trafficking
activities of a prominent Little Rock businessman who
operated several banking investment firms and brokerages
in Arkansas and Florida," the FBI report stated. "The
investigation revealed that this businessman was the main
supplier of cocaine to the investment banking and bond
community in the Little Rock area, which has the largest
bond community in the United States outside of New York
City. This task force investigation resulted in the conviction
of this businessman and 24 codefendants to jail sentences
ranging from four months to 10 years, as well as the seizure
of cocaine, marijuana, an automobile, an airplane and
$77,000."
Typically, investigations conducted by federal Organized
Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF) units
target top-level criminal organizations, not businessmen
who take a few toots every now and then. Researchers
familiar with the Lasater investigation say that the FBI's
description of its Little Rock investigation goes far beyond
anything that has ever been publicly released about the
Lasater probe.
Roger Morris's book, in fact, describes an investigation
that was shut down prematurely and ended only with
Lasater's arrest, not that of twenty-four others. But Morris
also suggested that there was much more to the case than
met the eye: "Whatever the limits or extent of Lasater's
cocaine trafficking or the nature of his other dealings, most
believed that beyond him the larger corruption in Little Rock
and elsewhere pointed unmistakably to organized crime,
not to mention the vast crimes of Mena—none of which
would be pursued."
Morris wrote that "in sworn testimony, a former staff
member of the Arkansas State Police Intelligence Unit

===== PDF PAGE 192 =====
would describe 'a shredding party' in which she was
ordered to purge the state's Mena files of nearly a thousand
documents, including those referring specifically to Iran-
Contra conspirator Oliver North and Seal associate Terry
Reed." Reed claims that North, who was the National
Security Council official overseeing the Contra project at
the time, was his CIA contact for both the pilot-training
program and the machine-tool company front.
A Clinton spokesman called the reports of Clinton's
alleged knowledge of the Mena operations "the darkest
backwater of the right wing conspiracy industry." North, who
certainly knew about Barry Seal, has denied knowing
anything about Terry Reed or what was going on at Mena.
But something was certainly happening at that little airport,
and it was far from routine. While denying that the CIA was
involved in any illegal activities at Mena during the time
Seal's drug-smuggling operation was based there, the
CIA's Inspector General's Office confirmed in 1996 that the
CIA ran a "joint training operation with another federal
agency at Mena Intermountain Airport." The IG report, which
has never been publicly released, reportedly claims the
exercise lasted only two weeks, but conveniently omits the
year this occurred. The CIA also used the Mena airport for
"routine aviation related services" on CIA-owned planes,
according to a declassified summary of the report.
Coincidentally, it was Seal's drug-hauling airplane, a
Fairchild C-123K called 
The Fat Lady
, that a Sandinista
soldier blew out of the skies over Nicaragua in 1986 with a
SAM-7 missile, breaking open the Iran-Contra scandal. The
plane had been based at Mena before Seal sold it and it
began flying weapons-hauling missions for Oliver North and
the FDN.
Morris wrote that Seal also worked for the Pentagon's

===== PDF PAGE 193 =====
spy service, the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA), "where
coded records reportedly showed him on the payroll
beginning in 1982." Tim LaFrance told L.A. journalist Nick
Schou that the DIA was also involved in Ronald Lister's
weapons manufacturing plant in El Salvador, and that the
meetings Lister and his associates had with death squad
commander D'Aubuisson "happened because the DIA
wanted them to happen." Records found in Ronald Lister's
house in the 1986 raid disclosed connections between
Lister and "a DIA subcontractor."
Another man involved in Lister's Salvadoran weapons
operation, LaFrance said, was Richard E. Wilker, a former
Laguna Beach resident whom LaFrance described as an
ex-CIA agent. Wilker appears as the "technical director" on
Pyramid International's proposal of the security project to
the Salvadoran government. The biography section of the
proposal boasts that the company had "technicians with the
Central Intelligence Agency in physical security for 20
years."
"I met Lister through Wilker," LaFrance said. "Wilker had
heard about my stuff from the Agency. He said he had a
friend who wanted to talk about a deal. I called to check and
Langley said he [Wilker] was still working for the Agency.
So I started doing business with Lister and Wilker." Lister
was not officially a CIA employee, according to LaFrance;
"He wasn't getting a paycheck from them. He may have
said he did but his connection was. . .with Wilker. Very few
people ever work directly for the Agency."
Former CIA officer John Vandewerker, who once
employed Wilker as a salesman, said he knew Lister and
Wilker were involved in some business activity in El
Salvador. "It was kind of touchy. . .as far as getting out of
the country and all that kind of stuff." He did not elaborate.

===== PDF PAGE 194 =====
(Coincidentally, Vandewerker's name was found in the
notebooks of investigative reporter Danny Casolaro after
his death, in connection with the goings-on at the Cabazon
reservation.)
Pyramid was eventually tossed out of El Salvador at the
urging of the U.S. Army, which took over the weapons plant
that he and Pyramid had started, LaFrance said.
Lister dismisses any suggestion that he was "knowingly"
working for the CIA. In an interview with police in 1996, he
claimed "that if he were affiliated with an organization like
the CIA, he wouldn't talk about it." He confirmed, the
detectives wrote, that he had been a "security consultant
and had dealings and offices down in El Salvador. Lister
said he had a 'Munitions Control Permit' at that time and
was involved in legal arms sales." The detectives noted that
"Lister did display some knowledge of the U.S. intelligence
community during our interview."
Danilo Blandón met Lister very early through the FDN's
organization in Los Angeles and began an association with
him that would last until the late 1980s. Lister and a partner
named Bill Downing, Blandón said, "went to the meeting
that we have in the Contra revolution, the meeting that we
have every week and they, they offer us, they show us, you
know, they show us a demonstration for the weapons,
okay? They show the machine guns and the weapons. They
have the, the license to sell them."
Lister never sold guns to the Contras, according to
Blandón. That was true, but not entirely accurate, Norwin
Meneses said during a 1996 interview: "We, in fact, did
make arrangements to sell arms to the Contras, but the
FDN couldn't collect sufficient funds in order to finalize the
deal." Meneses, Blandón, and Lister then "traveled to
Honduras, Guatemala, and El Salvador to make

===== PDF PAGE 195 =====
arrangements with local governments" for the 
donation
 of
arms, Meneses said.
"Lister and Blandón then continued their mission in South
America without me. . .. I know Danilo says that the
weapons he got came through Ronnie Lister, but that isn't
true. If I told you where we got them, governments would
fall," Meneses said mysteriously. "I'm not going to do it
while I'm in this place." He motioned to the walls of the
Nicaraguan prison where he was interviewed and made a
pistol with his thumb and forefinger, which he pointed at his
head.
Meneses's own involvement in Contra gun running was
confirmed in 1996 by the 
New York Times
, which quoted
an unnamed Clinton administration official as saying that
Meneses had "contacts with the Contras in Honduras in
1982 or 1983 and 1984, and that he was believed then to
have had some involvement in arms smuggling as well as
money laundering and drugs." The 
Times
 also quoted two
other unnamed government officials as saying, "Intelligence
reports showed that Mr. Meneses was thought to have sent
some weapons for the Contras on at least one occasion.
But the size and nature of the shipment are unclear."
"There is a mention of weapons with him but not an
indication whether it was a standard or large pipeline," the
Times
 quoted "one official" as saying. The 
Times
 article
provided no further details on this stunning revelation.
The 
Los Angeles Times
, in a 1996 profile that portrayed
Lister as a loudmouth who told tall tales, confirmed
Meneses's statements that Lister was involved in weapons
transactions with him. Quoting an unidentified "former
business associate" of Lister, the paper wrote that Lister
"led a sales team on a futile mission to civil war-racked
[sic] El Salvador in the summer of 1982 to market surplus

===== PDF PAGE 196 =====
American arms, military equipment and used school buses
to the Salvadoran military. . .. The trip was financed, the
associate said, with an investment of at least $20,000 from
Norwin Meneses."
The trip was a failure, according to the 
Times
, because
Lister tried to arrange the deal through an unnamed leader
of an unnamed political party. Afterward Lister tried to get
involved in the cocaine business with Meneses, but the
drug kingpin allegedly turned him down, supposedly
because Meneses regarded Lister as "a loose cannon."
The story did not explain how or where Lister would have
picked up enough "surplus" American arms to approach
the Salvadoran military about making a weapons deal.
When defense attorneys tried in 1996 to quiz Blandón
about Lister's alleged relationship with the CIA, a federal
prosecutor immediately objected, and the jury was ordered
out of the courtroom. During a whispered conversation with
the judge, the prosecutor said that while it was true that
"Lister made a claim. . .that he was an employee of the
CIA," the government believed it was false, made only to
"impress [his] illegal business partners," and was an
attempt "to deter prosecution."
Nevertheless the prosecutor asked the judge to halt that
line of inquiry because it was "muddying the waters." The
judge decided that since Blandón had denied that Lister
worked for the government, there was no need for any more
questions like that. An internal CIA investigation in 1997
declared that Lister had no relationship with the agency.
Chris Moore, who regarded Lister's claims of CIA
connections with some skepticism, said Lister told him he
had a "big CIA contact" at an Orange County company.
"I can't remember his name, but Ron was always was
running off to meetings with him supposedly," Moore said.

===== PDF PAGE 197 =====
"Ron said the guy was the former Deputy Director of
Operations or something, real high up there. All I know is
that this supposed contact of his was working at the Fluor
Corporation [an international construction management
company based in Orange County] because I had to call
Ron out there a couple times." In an interview with the
Justice Department, Blandón "recalled hearing Lister say
that he was involved with the CIA and that he knew
someone high up in the CIA who was getting him some
licenses so he could sell weapons to Iran." Blandón said he
"never believed Lister because he lied too much." Years
later, however, evidence would surface suggesting that
Lister's claims of having a big CIA contact weren't as wild-
eyed as Blandón and Moore seemed to think.
In many ways, the relationship between Lister—the ex-
cop weapons dealer—and Blandón—the MBA-toting
cocaine broker—was symbiotic
Lister when he first met Blandón, "knew nothing about
narcotics and could not tell you coke from flour. I had never
seen the shit." But after Lister returned from his Central
American travels, his former San Diego attorney said, he
appeared to be an expert in the cocaine business. "When
he came back, he seemed to know a lot about what was
going on in Colombia with drug trafficking. I thought it was
interesting because in the mid-1980s, no one knew very
much about these cartels. But he knew quite a bit. And he
knew names and dates, places, et cetera.
"I can remember one incident in particular. In the papers
at the time all of a sudden there were these stories about
the Medellín cartel, and Ron just snorted and said, 'What
the hell is with the news media? There are all these stories
about the Medellín cartel and nothing about the Cali cartel.'
Ron said the Cali cartel is where all the power is

===== PDF PAGE 198 =====
concentrated, that's where the power structure is, and no
one is even bothering them. They're getting ready to
expand their market to Europe. They're buying cargo ships
and airplanes.' Well, I'd never heard of the Cali cartel at that
point. Subsequent events certainly proved him right."
The attorney surmised that Lister could have gained "this
information from the CIA, or through his work with them. He
knew some pretty damned good details and professed to
being through the area. Now, I have traveled extensively
through Central America, and the only thing I can tell you is,
his information about the area was true. I know he'd been
there." Lister told CIA inspectors that he had been to
Colombia with Blandón and observed Blandón negotiating
drug deals with the Colombians.
As 1982 drew to a close, Blandón's cocaine trafficking
business in Los Angeles exploded. Almost overnight, it
appears, he went from receiving little one-or two-kilo
packages that could be tucked inside a lunch box to getting
multimillion-dollar loads that wouldn't fit on a wheelbarrow.
"I'd go over to D's [Blandón's] house, take my Mercedes
over there, put three U-Haul boxes which will cover about
100 keys, about 33 per box plus one you'd squeeze in, in
the trunk, go over to south L.A.," Lister told police. "It was
the slickest deal you've ever seen."
There were two interrelated reasons for this huge
expansion of Blandón's cocaine trafficking. One is that Dr.
Raul Jeri's much-ridiculed "epidemic" of cocaine smoking
had finally arrived in Los Angeles. And the other was a
street-smart ghetto teenager who would come to be known
as Freeway Rick.

===== PDF PAGE 199 =====
"Something happened to Ivan"
T
he man who would be king of the L.A. crack market saw
his first rock of cocaine around Christmastime in 1979 and
didn't believe it was a drug. Ricky Donnell Ross knew what
drugs looked like. He was nineteen. He'd seen drugs
before. But this sure didn't look like cocaine to him. It was a
little whitish chunk of something that could have been bird
shit, for all he knew. And you were supposed to put it in a
pipe and smoke it? Right.
Ross had seen people on TV using cocaine before, and
they never smoked any shit that looked like this. When they
used it, they cut it up on a mirror with a razor blade and
tooted it up with a hundred-dollar bill.
"It was glamorous. It was, you know, you was in the 'in'
crowd if you was into cocaine, if you was using. You know,
whatever. It was in," Ross said. "It was what the movie stars
were doing."
Ross's skepticism seems hard to believe now, with crack
dealers more plentiful than policemen in urban
communities. But in 1979 it was understandable. At that
point, hardly anyone had seen rock cocaine. The friend who
gave Rick what he called "a fifty-dollar rock" knew about
smokable cocaine only because he was traveling in the fast
lane. He was on the San Jose State University football
team. He went to a lot of high-class parties. He knew what
was happening.
"He's like, 'Man, I'm onto something new,'" Ross would
later tell the 
Los Angeles Times
 in 1994. According to the
Times
, "Ross ventured out and showed off his acquisition
to an old pimp, who fired it right up and ordered $100
more."

===== PDF PAGE 200 =====
The problem was, Ross didn't have any more. He didn't
know how to make it or where to get it. And it's doubtful he
could have found more even if he had the money, which he
didn't.
If he'd searched hard enough in the right neighborhoods,
maybe in Malibu or Hollywood, Ricky Ross might have
been able to come up with something close—freebase
cocaine. Freebase was becoming popular in the upper
echelons of the drug underground in the late 1970s. It was
not crack, however. Making freebase was more
complicated and dangerous, requiring exotic and highly
flammable solvents. It was also different in content.
Freebase resulted from mixing cocaine powder with
ether. When the ether evaporated, it took the adulterants
and cutting agents with it, leaving behind smokable crystals
of pure cocaine base. For the process to work, however, it
required a very high-quality cocaine; the cocaine powder
that most people snorted wouldn't do because it was so
heavily cut. Adding ether to a mishmash of mannitol,
lidocaine, or milk sugar caused some "cocaine" to
evaporate entirely.
Freebasing was what comedian Richard Pryor had been
doing when he set himself on fire on June 9, 1980, and ran
screaming from his bedroom in Northridge, outside L.A.—a
ball of blazing polyester leaping across neatly kept lawns.
"His polyester shirt had melted onto his arms and chest and
he suffered third-degree burns from the waist up," 
Time
magazine reported. "The Los Angeles police say Pryor told
them that the accident occurred while he was 'free-basing'
cocaine."
Pryor would later say freebasing was only tangentially
related to his fearful scorching. The fire happened because
he accidentally ignited some 151-proof rum while in a daze

===== PDF PAGE 201 =====
from a seventy-two-hour freebasing binge. If he'd been
smoking freebase, in fact, he might never have burned
himself at all; Pryor said he started drinking the rum
because he'd run out of cocaine.
The distinction didn't matter much to the news media.
The fact that Pryor—a major celebrity—had an accident
while in the clutches of some weird, exotic new drug habit
made it big news. "When Cocaine Can Kill," 
Newsweek
trumpeted. "A dangerous drug craze" is how 
People
Weekly
 put it. The 
Los Angeles Times
 discovered to its
alarm that in the mostly black NBA, freebase use was
spreading among pro basketball players.
As one cocaine expert wrote in 1982, the coverage of
Pryor's accident was "reminiscent of the pre-Harrison Act
yellow journalism [and] told the story of how cocaine was
becoming the modern version of the Black cocaine
menace of the early 1900s." The Harrison Act of 1914,
which outlawed recreational cocaine use in the United
States, resulted from a wild—and bogus—newspaper
campaign mounted by southern sheriffs who linked coke-
crazed black studs to the rapes of white women.
For a variety of reasons, including the bad press from
Pryor's misfortune, freebasing was largely a passing fad,
never really taking hold except among a few rich, hard-core
drug users. "The relatively high cost and difficulty of
producing cocaine free-base made it less accessible to
most cocaine users," drug researcher Steven Belenko
wrote in 1993. "An estimated 10% of cocaine users in the
late 1970s also used free-base cocaine. But the need for
large quantities of relatively pure cocaine and volatile
chemicals to produce free-base limited its appeal to the
broader group of cocaine users."
Unlike Richard Pryor's neighborhood, the neighborhood

===== PDF PAGE 202 =====
where Ricky Ross lived rarely saw cocaine in any form. As
hard as the drug was to find in white, middle-class
communities, it was ten times as scarce in South Central
L.A., where the Ross family had lived since the early 1960s.
People in the projects didn't have that kind of money, and if
every once in a while they did, they sure as hell didn't go out
and spend it all on white powder that barely got you high.
According to a Rand Institute study of street prices paid
by DEA agents and informants, an ounce of cocaine
powder in L.A. was selling for $4,844 in 1979. Other
sources place it at roughly $2,500 an ounce, suggesting
that DEA agents weren't the savviest shoppers around. In
any event, a tiny bit cost about half the average annual
income of a South Central resident. Little wonder that
marijuana and angel dust—a dangerous chemical known in
the projects as "Sherm" or "water"—were the drugs of
choice where Ricky Ross lived. They were far less
expensive. That was why Thomas C. "Tootie" Reese, the
alleged king of cocaine in black L.A. at the time, lamented
that he never sold as much coke as the cops and the press
claimed.
"When you mentioned drugs, whether it was heroin or
coke, you heard Tootie's name," said former LAPD
narcotic detective Steven Polak. "He was the kingpin,
especially in the fifties and sixties. Everybody was working
Tootie Reese. Tootie Reese was probably one of the first
blacks who really did big dope." But the man himself had a
different story for the 
L.A. Times
, which interviewed him a
few months after his arrest in December 1983 for selling
two kilos of cocaine to undercover officers.
"I ain't never been big," Tootie told the 
Times
. Some
evidence gathered during the investigation of Reese
backed up his assertion that his cocaine-dealing prowess

===== PDF PAGE 203 =====
had been greatly overrated. During a taped conversation
with undercover agents, Reese told them that "most of his
customers purchase only five ounces or 10 ounces and that
he had only five kilo-size customers." That admission was
made at a time when a much bigger dealer in South
Central—Danilo Blandón—was moving dozens of kilos a
month through just one customer. Reese was mostly a
heroin and marijuana dealer. By the early 1980s, when
cocaine started seeping into the inner cities in noticeable
amounts, Reese was a dinosaur.
"These new kids, once the eighties hit and these gangs
hooked up with this dope, he was nothing anymore," ex-
detective Polak said. "He was just an old grandpa who'd
lost his teeth and wasn't worth anything anymore." A 1989
L.A. Times Magazine
 piece wrote him off in similar terms:
"The amounts of cocaine he allegedly dealt were
infinitesimal contrasted with the tonnage now sold monthly
by his successors in the black community."
Reese's first major successor would be Ricky Ross,
though that was not readily apparent in late 1979. Looking
at him then, one would not have imagined the slender,
slightly pop-eyed teenager to be a successor to anything
but a hard row to hoe. A sometime thief, sometime student,
he was clinging to a tattered dream of becoming a
professional tennis player. Though too small for football or
basketball, Ross had quick reflexes. When he was in
middle school, about eleven or twelve, two family friends,
Dr. Mal Bouquet and Richard Williams, encouraged him to
take up tennis.
Ross's own father, Sonny, an oil tank cleaner by trade,
had left home while Ross was still a small child in Tyler,
Texas, in 1963. The rest of Ross's life would be spent in a
sometimes tragic quest to find someone to replace him.

===== PDF PAGE 204 =====
Bouquet and Williams became Ross's first father figures.
"They picked me up, took me to tennis tournaments. They
took care of my racquets and tennis shoes, stuff like that,"
Ross said. "They fed me. You know, we'd leave a
tournament, we'd go to McDonald's, something like that."
Ross said the tournaments and tennis practices kept him
out of the 74 Hoover Crips, his neighborhood gang. He was
friends with many of them, he said, but was never a gang
member himself. Federal prison records appear to back up
that claim. "There exists no information to substantiate your
membership in the Los Angeles based 'Crips' street gang,"
stated a 1993 letter to Ross from the Federal Correctional
Institution in Phoenix. "All information in your file has been
deleted which reflected gang participation or membership."
"He does not have the culture of a gang member when
you talk to him," said 
L.A. Times
 reporter Jesse Katz, who
spent months interviewing Ross in 1994 for a major series
on the L.A. crack market. "He doesn't have the attitude and
the—I mean, he was a capitalist."
It wasn't because Ross had anything against gangs
necessarily. Most of the 74 Hoovers were homies he'd
grown up with, gone to school with. He would put them to
use in the future. But for now, he just didn't have time for
gang-banging. "Once I started playing tennis, we'd start
practicing as soon as school was out, so we'd get off the
tennis court probably around 6:00 or 7:00 when it was time
to go in the house."
It was hard to get away with anything there. His mother,
Annie, a heavyset woman with bottle-thick glasses, a janitor
in downtown office buildings, was strict. She was always
checking up on him and his older brother David, snooping
in their rooms to make sure they weren't getting into trouble.
When she was at work, her younger sister Luetha Wilson

===== PDF PAGE 205 =====
watched the boys.
By the time Ross enrolled in Dorsey High School, his
tennis skills were well honed. "I made All-League my first
year. My second year, I made All-City second team and my
senior year, I made All-City first team," Ross said. But he
didn't fare as well in tournaments. "I'd win a few rounds. I
never got ranked."
Still, Ross played well enough to retain a spot on the
Dorsey High tennis team. Playing tennis for a major
university was his immediate goal in life. There were about
five players on his high school team that the coaches were
grooming for college scholarships, and he was proud to
consider himself one of them.
Ross had a bit of a problem, though. By his senior year
at Dorsey, he still couldn't read or write. "My teachers just
passed me, gave me C's and let me go through," Ross
shrugged. It hardly seemed to matter, he said, because you
didn't need it to play tennis. And in truth, it hadn't mattered.
It hadn't kept him off the courts. It hadn't kept him behind in
school. It only mattered when he started practicing with the
Long Beach State University tennis team.
Ross had played in a tournament in Griffith Park, "and I
had beat the number three or four guy from Long Beach
State and a [Long Beach] coach asked me what school I
was going to, when I was graduating from high school.
Basically, he asked me, you know, what was I doing and
how is my tennis going and stuff like that." The coach
invited him over to the university for practice, and Ross
worked out with the Long Beach State team a couple of
times. "Then he found out about my grades and that I
couldn't read or write," Ross said. To Ross's shock, that
was the end of the university's interest. "I thought it basically
would be the same as it had been all the time," Ross

===== PDF PAGE 206 =====
complained. "That they would just keep passing me
through."
Disillusioned, he dropped out of Dorsey soon afterward,
saying that it seemed pointless if he couldn't get into
college. "I didn't graduate. I made it to the 12th grade and I
was a few credits from being able to graduate." Ross said
he was "kinda like in no man's land, almost, I would say. . ..
My life was like at a standstill." On July 7, 1978, he was
arrested by the LAPD for burglary and disorderly conduct.
The charges would be dismissed—Ross said it was a
case of mistaken identity—but the incident was an
indication of the path he was on.
Ricky's other passion in life was automobiles, so he
channeled his efforts in that direction. Since childhood, his
mother said, "Ricky was taking things apart and putting
them back together." Every summer she took the boys
back to her brother's house in Overton, Texas, where Ricky
and David would work on the brother's farm. Ricky began
tooling around on tractors at an early age and developed
driving skills quickly.
"When Ricky was about four years old he tried to drive
my brother's car," Annie Ross said. "By the time he was
eleven or twelve, he was driving by himself. You know, out
in the country, where nobody minded. When he got older,
he'd bring these cars home, work on them all the time, fix
them up, and sell them. He always kept himself real busy."
In 1979, as Ross prepared to leave tennis behind, he
prevailed upon someone he'd met through the sport, Mr.
Fisher, a young auto upholstery teacher at the Venice Skills
Center, to give him a shot at a new career. Fisher, a
sometime tennis partner, got Ross into an open slot at the
skills center.
"It's like a trade school where people that don't have

===== PDF PAGE 207 =====
nothing going can go and get them a trade, and they pay
them," Ross said. "They pay them something really for
going, you know, like help you with your expenses and stuff
like that for going to the school." It was a nice favor, and
Ross began attending auto repair classes. Then tennis
came calling again.
Pete Brown, a coach at L.A. Trade Tech Junior College,
asked Ross if he'd like to come to the technical school,
learn a trade, and play tennis for him. Jubilantly, Ross quit
the skills center and went running to Trade Tech. He had
made a college team after all. "He was a very good player,"
recalled Brown. "I'd say he was probably my number-three
guy on the team at the time." Ross recalled that he "played
number one and number two at different times of the
season. You know, like sometimes one guy would beat me
and sometimes I would beat him. So we would go back and
forth."
By then Ross had drifted away from his two childhood
tennis mentors, Bouquet and Williams. Ross was
embarrassed by his failure to get a scholarship, and he
sensed that Williams wasn't eager to have him around
anymore, since it was clear he wasn't going to make a
major university team.
Ross began spending more time with Mr. Fisher, the
upholstery teacher, and the two played tennis together
frequently. Ross soon adopted Fisher as a father figure.
"Me and him, we would go play, you know, what we called
hitting. I would hit with him, because they like to hit with
people that's better than them, and in return he would buy
me tennis shoes, racquets, help me get—like if I couldn't
get a racquet strung, I could call him and say that, you know,
'I need my racquet strung' and he would pay for it."
Fisher, Ross said, "was considered an uppity black guy.

===== PDF PAGE 208 =====
He was single. He stayed in the Baldwin Hills area, which is
a nicer part of Los Angeles. He had a brand-new Cadillac,
you know, nice jewelry, school teacher." Ross said he
would "go by his house from time to time" after getting off
school at Trade Tech, where the illiterate Ross, ironically,
was studying bookbinding.
As the two became closer, Fisher let his guard down. In
1981, shortly before he left Trade Tech, Ross found out why
Mr. Fisher was able to afford jewelry and brand-new
Cadillacs on a trade school teacher's salary. "We had a
conversation one day. I found out that he was dealing and
also using narcotics. I'm not exactly sure how the
conversation came up but we started talking about it and he
started explaining to me what it was all about."
Ross said he was glad the topic arose. At this point in
his life, he was looking for any way to make a buck, and it
really didn't matter if it was legal or not. He'd crossed that
threshold already. "Actually, when he explained it to me, I
wanted to know more about it, so I started asking him more
questions," Ross said. "He showed me some. It was about
as big as a matchhead and he said, 'Well, this right here is
worth $50 and you can sell this and it just keeps getting
better and better,' is basically what he said."
Ross mulled it over. Selling cocaine certainly seemed a
lot better and a lot less risky than stealing and stripping
cars, which is what he'd been doing to put himself through
Trade Tech. He discussed it with his running partner, Ollie
Newell, known as "Big Loc" because some people thought
he acted crazy. Newell, who'd just gotten out of jail and
needed money, agreed that selling dope looked like a lot
less work for a lot more money.
But Ross had one reservation: all the dope dealers he
knew eventually got fucked up on their own product. Nothing

===== PDF PAGE 209 =====
was more pathetic than seeing a burned-out old dealer
begging nickels and dimes from his former clients. That
wasn't the way Ricky Ross envisioned his life ending.
"Ollie was kinda like the one that kinda like coerced me
into getting into the business," Ross said. "You know, he's
like, 'Come on, man, you can do it, you don't mess around
with nothing, you don't smoke, you don't drink, you're clean,
you can handle it.'"
Ross made up his mind. They went back to see Mr.
Fisher and announced that they were ready to try it out.
Ross said Fisher gave them "a fifty-dollar piece" and "we
went to a neighborhood and tried to sell it."
It was not an encouraging start. "We got beat out of it,"
Ross said. "We gave it to somebody and they said they
was going to pay us later and it didn't happen." Ross said
he had to go slinking back to Fisher to tell him about the
"sale," but he assured the teacher that "the guy was going
to pay me the money, and he said, 'Okay, don't worry about
it.'"
Chastened, Ross and Newell regrouped for another try.
They scoped out the parking lot at Bret Harte Junior High,
their alma mater, and stole a car from a faculty member.
Selling the fancy wheels brought them $250, and a week or
so after their first debacle, they went strutting back to
Fisher's house with their hard-earned cash.
"We bought what's called an 8-track of cocaine from him.
It's three grams of cocaine. At that time, it probably was
about a gram of cocaine and about two grams of cut."
Taking the 8-track for $250, they cut it again and sold it off
in bits and pieces. "We could take it to our neighborhood
where we stayed at and it would sell for [a total of] five, six
hundred dollars. . .. I think the first time we might have made
about $600 off it. . .an awful lot of money."

===== PDF PAGE 210 =====
Instead of spending the profits, Ross said, they went
back to Fisher's house and ordered more cocaine. "Sold it,
made more money," Ross said. "I didn't really know the
game. It was like we were just stumbling through, you know
what I'm saying? Picking up as we go."
Ross said the amount of cash he was able to bring in
scared him.
"I was selling, and Ollie was standing back, you know,
and watching me, you know, make sure didn't nobody try to
rob me or nothing like that," Ross said. "So I would make
like three hundred dollars, I would take it home and put it
up, because I didn't want to be standing out there with a
whole lot of dope and a whole lot of money. Because the
police raided the spot all the time, you know. They might be
raided every 15 or 20 minutes. It was a PCP street. They
was selling PCP there. But they wouldn't pay no attention to
me unless I had a lot of money on me."
Ross said the cops mostly just smelled dealers' hands,
looking for the telltale stench of PCP. "They would just smell
my hands, pat me and let me go. But if I had a wad of
money, it would draw attention, so we never wanted to get
over two or three hundred dollars."
Acquaintances who were dealing PCP—"slanging
Sherm" or "selling water," as it was called—made fun of
him for selling coke because there was a much bigger
market for angel dust. "All the guys selling PCP used to tell
us, 'Ya'll can make more money, ya'll should sell PCP.' And
I was like, 'No, that's all right, I don't want to mess with PCP.
That's too hard.' And cocaine was more, like, flyer, more
like the uppity people, you know, wasn't nobody going
crazy, you know? When they smoked the PCP they would
go crazy and stuff and I would think, 'I ain't gonna be
involved with that.' Cocaine is like, mellow, and it was cool.

===== PDF PAGE 211 =====
So I didn't mind doing it."
Still slightly unsure of the future of the cocaine business,
Ross kept his hand in the auto business as well. He was
still stealing cars and fencing them or stripping them down
in his body shop and parting them out. On March 19, 1982,
he was arrested by the LAPD for grand theft auto. The
police found a Mercedes Benz in his garage with parts that
didn't match. Ross dipped into his cash reserves and hired
a Beverly Hills lawyer named Alan Fenster, a former
prosecutor and film studio lawyer who had little trouble
getting the auto theft charge tossed out of court.
"There was no evidence Ricky had any knowledge about
that car," said Fenster, whose performance in that felony
case would lead him to many years of lucrative employment
with Ross. Fenster, who'd been defending drug dealers
and drug users since the early 1970s, said it was "my
recollection that when I met Rick, he was already dealing
drugs. Ricky was introduced to me by another client I had,
who was a dealer, and I recall that he told me Ross was
someone who was into some serious dealing then."
Early 1982 was an exceptionally good time to be in the
cocaine business. It was like getting in on the ground floor
of Amway. "At first we was just going to do it until we made
$5,000," Ross said. "We made that so fast we said, 'No,
we'll quit when we make $20,000.' Then we was going to
quit when we saved enough to buy a house. . ."
Though it would not become apparent for some time, the
cocaine industry was then undergoing dramatic changes
that would boost the fortunes of dealers everywhere. The
drug was finally beginning to filter down from the
penthouses into the real world, opening up a whole new
audience for its seductive charms.
The most basic reason was supply and demand. In some

===== PDF PAGE 212 =====
cities, Miami in particular, supply was beginning to outstrip
demand, thanks largely to the efforts of Carlos Lehder and
his pals in Medellín, Colombia, who had revolutionized the
import/export part of the business. By early 1982, the
Medellín cartel had gotten its act together and—using
special airplanes, radar avoidance techniques, and
specially designed speedboats—began bringing in
unheard-of amounts of cocaine, mostly through the
Bahamas.
Ten days before Rick Ross's auto theft arrest in March
1982, Customs agents in Miami searched an airplane,
owned by a tiny Colombian air cargo company, that had
flown in from Medellín. By the time agents arrived, workers
were busy unloading dozens of boxes labeled "jeans." But
when an inspector stuck a screwdriver into one of them, he
didn't hit denim. White powder came pouring out of the
hole.
When the Customs men had finished weighing the
cocaine, the scales topped out at 3,906 pounds, nearly four
times the size of the previous U.S. cocaine seizure record.
It was, authors Guy Gugliotta and Jeff Leen wrote in 
Kings
of Cocaine
, the DEA's "first look at the shadow of the
beast."
As more loads like that got through, the wholesale price
of cocaine in the U.S. began dropping. But it never
dropped dramatically enough to make it popular in low-
income neighborhoods. According to the 1994 Rand
Institute study, between 1979 and 1982 ounce prices in
L.A. fell from the stratospheric to the merely exorbitant:
$4,844 vs. $4,011. Gram prices fell slightly during the same
period, from $321 to $259. Kilo prices dropped more
significantly, from around $75,000 to around $60,000.
Major importers and top-level dealers began seeing big

===== PDF PAGE 213 =====
price breaks. But if the Rand study's figures are accurate,
for the average Joe who bought by the gram, cocaine was
still extremely expensive.
And that was okay with Ricky Ross and Ollie Newell. At
those prices, they didn't need a lot of customers. By the end
of 1981, they were finally starting to make some real
money. The number of users in the neighborhoods wasn't
growing that much, but they were stealing customers away
from other dealers. "We just had a price," Ross said.
"Nobody in the neighborhood could touch us."
The cocaine they were getting from Fisher was slightly
cheaper than what others were paying, and when Ross
asked him why, Fisher told him he "had a really good
connection." Since Ross could charge less, it wasn't too
hard to find customers willing to pay $125 a gram instead
of the $150 or $200 they'd been paying. Any chance to
save a buck—especially after being gouged all these years
—made for very happy and loyal clients. "People would
come from everywhere, man. They would come from
Pomona, Pasadena, Riverside, Long Beach. It wasn't just
like an L.A. thing."
Ross also exercised some of the same type of discipline
that had kept him out on the tennis courts, swinging the
racquet and running, hour after hour, day after day. "I mean,
listen, when you got in the dope business, everybody
wanted to get high. Nobody wanted to sell dope," Ross
said disgustedly. "It was like. . .even Ollie! Ollie was, was,
was straight and always wanted to get high, get high, get
high. So. . .I finally got in it, I said, 'Well, man, you're using
up all the profit!' This was in the early stages, and he said,
'Well, I ain't gonna do no more.' But everybody else wanted
to get high. [It was] the whole motto, you know, in our
neighborhood—because we never left our neighborhood;

===== PDF PAGE 214 =====
we was like confined to South Central L.A.—everybody
was just getting high. Let's party, man."
Ross was not the party-hearty type, not when it came to
business. He considered himself first and foremost to be a
professional cocaine trafficker. It was his job to move dope,
and he did it with his usual intensity. "You know how some
people feel that God put them down here to be a preacher?
I felt that he had put me down to be the cocaine man," Ross
told the 
L.A. Times
 in 1994. And like a missionary for a
new religion, Ross began creating cocaine dealers.
"Eventually, all the guys that was selling PCP started
seeing everybody coming [to me] with their hundred dollars,
and they were selling like ten dollars worth, five dollars
worth, you know, sticks. They knew every time somebody
came to me, it was a hundred dollars. So I didn't have to
see that many people, maybe, fifteen people a day, you
know, I make fifteen hundred dollars and they started
seeing to that and knowing how much money I was making.
"So then they started saying, 'Well, I'm gonna sell some
water and you know I'm going to buy two hundred dollars
worth from Rick and start, you know, investing it in cocaine
and start doing it myself. So the next thing I know, all these
guys were coming to me saying, 'Man, I want to get an
eight-track.'"
But Ross's source, Mr. Fisher, was getting antsy about all
the cocaine Ross and Newell were ordering. An occasional
gram here and there was fine, he told Ross, but he was a
schoolteacher, not Super Fly. The only reason he did a little
dealing out the side was to pay for his own supply. Rick and
Ollie were making a business out of it, and if they wanted to
do that it was their business, but he didn't want anything to
do with it.
"I think he was getting tired of us calling him up all the

===== PDF PAGE 215 =====
time and having him get us some more," Ross said. "Mr.
Fisher was working so he told me to go ahead and deal
directly with Ivan and we met at Mr. Fisher's house and I got
the stuff."
"Ivan," a handsome, smiling Latino, had been supplying
Mr. Fisher with cocaine for about a year. Ross had seen
him around Fisher's house before, but they'd never been
introduced.
During their first meeting, Ivan brought along another
Hispanic—Henry—but Ricky wasn't clear what part Henry
played, other than that he was Ivan's brother-in-law. Maybe
he was his partner. Or maybe he'd just come along for the
ride.
In halting English, Ivan told them that he would be happy
to be their supplier from now on. If they wanted any more
product, they should call him directly, instead of bothering
Mr. Fisher. He slipped Ross a folded paper with a phone
number on it. On the way out, Ivan told Ross that he would
get them a better price than Mr. Fisher had. "We moved up
fast," Ross said. "We went from moving grams to moving
ounces." And Ivan proved true to his word. "After I started
dealing directly with Ivan, it got better. We could take. . .the
same thing we was buying from Mr. Fisher for $200 and
turn it into $900, because we found out Mr. Fisher had been
taking some of the money. He might have been making like
$50, $75 off each one [8-track]. So we started making
more money."
With more cash flow, Ross was able to order larger
amounts of cocaine from Ivan and get a better price, a
volume purchase break. And then he could cut his street
prices even further. "He kept incrementally expanding his
quantity, and every time he could do that, he was bringing
the price down just a little bit more, and then what he would

===== PDF PAGE 216 =====
gain from volume, he would put right back into the
operation," 
Times
 reporter Katz said. "It was just classic
economics. And he saw all this in a way I guess others
didn't, or weren't as disciplined as him to act on."
Some of this discipline was not entirely of Ross's
choosing. One reason he and Newell began reinvesting
their profits so faithfully was because they didn't dare spend
the money on anything else. "My momma was strict, right?
Both our mothers, me and Ollie's mother, was strict, right?
So we couldn't show the money! We had like. . .we had
$1,000 and we didn't even buy new tennis shoes! Because
my mother woulda knew: 'Where'd you get them shoes
from?'
"So we, like, hid our money. We was hiding our money
from our mothers!" Ross laughed, shaking his head at the
idea of two badass cocaine dealers so afraid of their
mommas they couldn't spend their loot. "So even if we buy
clothes, we'd hide them in the garage and put them on after
we'd leave so she wouldn't find out."
But the nature of his business made it difficult to hide
forever. Eventually Annie Ross figured out what was going
on.
"When she found out I was selling dope, she had a fit.
Threw me out of the house," Ross said. "I never rented no
apartment or nothing like that. I had some money but I didn't
know how to rent an apartment. I was living in her garage. I
fixed it up like a little house. She was like, 'Boy, something
going on. I don't know what you're doing but you ain't doing
something right. You got all these people coming around
here. Tell them people to stop coming round my house,'"
Ross said.
He "really didn't do business there," he said, but when a
customer wanted something, someone had to come by and

===== PDF PAGE 217 =====
let him know. "And she was like, 'There's too many people
coming over here, I know something is wrong.' One day she
just said, 'Get your stuff and leave. Don't come back over
here. And Ollie, don't you come back either.' Because you
know Ollie is like her godson. So she threw us out. But I had
a little bit of money then and I moved in with one of my
cousins and started paying her to let me stay there.
"But that's basically how we got started."
After eight months with their new supplier, just as their
business really began expanding, "something happened to
Ivan," Ross said. He'd disappeared. Ross and Newell
panicked. Their only supplier had dropped off the face of
the earth. Where were they going to get their cocaine now?
From afar, Danilo Blandón watched events unfold. It was
time for him to make his move.

===== PDF PAGE 218 =====
"A million hits is not enough"
I
van's whereabouts were no mystery to Danilo Blandón.
He'd been observing Ivan's dealings with Ricky Ross for
quite some time, seeing their sales expand, watching the
venture become more and more profitable. He had to admit
it; he was jealous. Despite all the work he'd been doing for
Norwin Meneses personally—keeping the books, working
for the Contras, helping Norwin's wife run the restaurant and
the T-shirt company—the drug kingpin was still nagging him
to move more cocaine. Every couple of months Blandón
would drive all the way to Meneses's house in Pacifica, a
nine-hour trip, pick up another kilo or two, drive back to
L.A., and then have to put up with Meneses flogging him to
sell it.
Blandón had been hitting up other car salesmen he
knew, helping other cocaine dealers through dry spells now
and again, but he wasn't making any great strides. He
estimated that he spent "about a year, year and a half, you
know, with the same two, one or two keys."
But Ivan Arguellas, another Nicaraguan exile scuttling
around L.A. with cocaine to sell, had found this kid in South
Central, Ricky Ross, and they were really starting to move
the powder. Blandón knew Ivan, who also used the name
Claudio Villavicencio, because of their shared heritage and
their new profession. He sold Ivan a little cocaine every
once in a while. But Ivan had other sources of supply.
The Torres brothers—the two giants with the little car lot
—also got into the cocaine business around this time,
according to Blandón, who surmised that they were
supplying Ricky Ross. "I supposed that maybe they start
with Rick," Blandón said. "I know them so well, you know,

===== PDF PAGE 219 =====
they are Nicaraguan people. . .. When I saw them getting
rich, getting money, so I saw that they start doing business
with him."
If the Torres brothers were dealing with Ross, as Blandón
claims, it is likely that they were doing so as Ivan's
suppliers, because Ross said he never met the Torreses
face-to-face until long after Ivan disappeared.
Blandón had no other sources. He was stuck with Norwin
Meneses, who was squeezing him dry for the Contras,
charging him $60,000 a kilo and taking nearly every penny
he made. Norwin was holding him back, he believed. "I
didn't have my own car," Blandón complained. "I have to
rent cars, you know. I used to work with him [Meneses], you
know, coming from San Francisco, going back, and I
thought, 'Hey, what are you doing? You're not doing nothing,
you know? You're not making no—no money.'"
That's why Ivan's deal with Ricky Ross looked so good to
Blandón. This little kid was a mover, and he was getting
bigger all the time. "I wished I could have known Ricky. .
.because all the time I want to grow in the business,"
Blandón said. "He [Ivan] and his brother-in-law [Henry] was
selling to Rick. So I wish I could [have known] him. . .. I knew
how much they were selling."
Blandón got his wish. Ivan Arguellas caught a bullet in the
spine that crippled him from the waist down. He was
hospitalized for months and forced to quit the cocaine
business while he recuperated. "He got shot by his wife,"
Blandón said. "He's paralyzed right now." A tough break for
Ivan, but it was the break Danilo Blandón had been waiting
for. Ivan's customers had fallen to his brother-in-law, Henry
Corrales, a drug dealing amateur. "Henry was kind of a
knucklehead," Ross recalled. "He was a nice guy who just
wanted to party all the time. He didn't know what he was

===== PDF PAGE 220 =====
doing."
Blandón agreed. "When he [Ivan] got in the accident, it
started Henry Corrales getting in [the business]," he said.
"Henry was running the business because his brother-in-
law was in the hospital. And when the guy that got
paralyzed get in the hospital, he lost that [cocaine] contact.
And Henry didn't have any contact more than me when he
took over."
In all the time he'd been hanging around Ivan, Henry
apparently hadn't made any connections of his own. In a
business where a man is only as good as his sources,
Henry Corrales was hurting. Ivan's people expected him to
deliver. And where the hell was he going to come up with
the cocaine for these black gangsters downtown?
When Blandón came by to offer his sympathies and lend
a hand, Henry must have seen him as a savior. "When he
doesn't have any sources, [he] asked to me and that's when
we began the relationship with him," Blandón said.
Corrales told him Ross was "the best customer" he and
Ivan had, "a big customer that they were selling five or ten
[kilos] a week. . .. For me, it was a big customer."
Henry was so grateful for Blandón's help that he agreed
to share his profits on every kilo he sold, fifty-fifty. "We split
the commission," Blandón said, but he couldn't remember
how much that was. "I was selling to Henry Corrales and
Henry Corrales was selling to him [Ricky]. Henry was
coming to me to pick up the stuff."
Ross denied he was receiving that much cocaine from
Henry when he started his relationship with him. He and
Ollie were still dealing mostly ounces at that point, he said.
It was in multi-ounce lots, to be sure—they'd buy four or
eight ounces a day. But he said they did not graduate to
buying kilos until later. Blandón said he knew how much

===== PDF PAGE 221 =====
Ross had been buying from Ivan because the quantity he
sold him determined his price.
Ross said he did not know that Danilo Blandón had
adopted him as a customer. Just as he hadn't known where
Ivan got his coke from, he didn't know where Henry got his.
It's not that he wasn't curious. It was just a question cocaine
dealers didn't ask each other.
In the cocaine business, serious dealers had good
reason to cut out their wholesaler and buy directly from the
source. The closer they got, the cheaper and purer the
cocaine became. The more hands it passed through, the
more times the product got stepped on, or cut, and the
lower the profits became.
All Ricky knew was that once he started dealing with
Henry, his cocaine prices fell again. Maybe Ivan's
disappearance wasn't going to be such a bad deal after all,
Ross decided. "After we started dealing with Henry, it got
even better."
Not long afterward, Ross started noticing a slight change
in the cocaine market around South Central. Some of his
customers were taking the cocaine powder he was selling
them and turning it into weird little rocks—just like the one
he'd seen back in 1979. A couple dealers had actually
starting trying to sell rocks, he noticed, but the dopers Ricky
knew regarded the product suspiciously.
"At first, nobody wanted rock," Ross said. Nobody
wanted to mess with cocaine that didn't look like cocaine.
Secondly, the price was too low. How could anything
claiming to be cocaine cost only $25? It had to be a rip-off.
But Ricky vividly recalled his Christmastime experience
with the pimp a couple years back, when the man had
smoked a rock and come running back waving $100. If this
stuff catches on, Ross considered, it might be worth looking

===== PDF PAGE 222 =====
into. Then one of his customers asked him if he had any
rock to sell, and Ross got the message.
"See, the way rock came into play, it would be like, say
somebody was going to work early in the morning and they
wanted some cocaine. They wanted to get high and they'd
say, 'Damn, I gotta cook this shit up and I'm late for work,'
and they'd ask me, 'Can you cook it up for me?'" It was a
question of convenience. Ross said sure, and promptly
hired someone to make it for him.
"Know what I got in chemistry in school? A 'F'!" Ross
laughed. "First started out, I was paying someone to cook
it. But everybody always used to make it more complicated
than it was. Like the cookers never wanted you to learn how
to cook it. So everybody kind of kept it like hush-hush. 'Oh
man, you 
got
 to let me do it. You goin' to 
mess
 it up.'"
In truth, rock cocaine is easy to make. Put cocaine
powder in a pan, add some water and baking soda, and
heat until it starts crackling. Done.
The recipe had been floating around a little while before
it caught hold in South Central. In November 1979,
Tennyson Guyer's Select Committee investigating cocaine
provided the first public airing of the ingredients needed to
turn powder into crack. "A saucer, a glass, a paper towel
and Arm & Hammer baking soda are about all that is
needed," testifed Dr. Franklin Sher of Walnut Creek,
California, a Bay Area physician whose family owned the
country's largest freebase paraphernalia company at the
time.
In 1981 an author named T. Davidson published a
pamphlet, 
The Natural Process: Base-ic Instructions and
Baking Soda Recipe
, out of Tustin, California, an Orange
County town about thirty miles east of L.A., which contained
step-by-step instructions on how to make crack. Davidson

===== PDF PAGE 223 =====
hailed the simple procedure as "safe, healthy and
economical."
Ross said he watched his cooker for a while and thought,
"'What the hell, I'm going to try it.' Because the first person
that ever tried it was me. Ollie didn't try it first. I tried it first.
Then I told Ollie, 'You can do that shit too.' So we started
cooking it ourselves and we started selling what we called
'ready rock.'" He crumbled the rock up and delivered it in
$20 hits—nuggets about the size of a ball bearing—first in
tiny bits of aluminum foil, then later in tiny glass vials.
Ross smoked some himself and found the craving for
more so powerful that he vowed to stay as far away from
the shit as possible.
But, man, what a product.
He saw how his customers reacted. Once they tried it,
they never wanted anything else. "I think what made us start
smoking was curiosity and frustration. I know that it wasn't
the Black brothers' or sisters' intention to smoke cocaine
as a career. It's just so addicting. It's like one hit is one too
many and a million hits is not enough," explained Big
Shiphead, a Shotgun Crip since he was twelve years old.
"In my opinion, it's the worst drug that ever hit the face of
this earth."
What happened next was just what the scientists had
been predicting since 1974. As 
base
 had done in Lima
and La Paz eight years earlier, rock caused a sensation in
South Central. But it was an underground sensation initially.
A 1985 study by two University of Southern California
social scientists provides some of the only existing
documentation of crack's progression in South Central in
the early 1980s, when Ross and others began selling it. It is
like reading the origins of the Black Death.
"We. . .reviewed the LAPD South Bureau Narcotic

===== PDF PAGE 224 =====
Division activity reports from January of 1982 to the present
[April 1985]," sociologists Malcolm Klein and Cheryl
Maxson wrote. "From January to April of 1982 there are
notes of cocaine increase with freebase as the most
popular method. In May there is a random comment about
'rock hard' pre-free-based cocaine. With continuing
increases in arrests, the first real mention of rocks came in
September 1982 in the Southeast division. It showed up in
77th Division after another five months. Thereafter, monthly
reports continued to report the presence of rock cocaine
throughout the Bureau in increasing amounts."
And that was only what the LAPD was finding when they
busted somebody stupid, according to Ross; "They mighta
got some dude with a few rocks in his pocket, but the
LAPD didn't know nothing about what was really goin' on.
The LAPD didn't mess with us at all."
Former LAPD narcotics detective Steve Polak, who was
riding the streets of South Central at that time, said Ross's
viewpoint was essentially correct. Street cops like him,
Polak insisted, saw what was happening. As the USC
study showed, many of them were putting it in their reports.
But none of them really knew what they were looking at, and
the brass didn't seem that interested in finding out. "We
didn't know what it was. I was there as a cop in uniform. I
was stopping people on the streets and seeing these
rocks. I'd see them throwing these rocks, these little things,
and I'd go, 'What the fuck is this?' I didn't know what the fuck
it was, you know?"
When Polak asked, he was told they were bleached
peanuts. "I'd put the handcuffs on them and I'd say, 'You
know this is dope. I carry bleached peanuts all the time in
my pocket and throw them away when I see the cops, so,
you know, come on, give me a break.' It's just a matter of

===== PDF PAGE 225 =====
sending it to the lab and seeing exactly what he had and,
you know, it was coming back this coke stuff."
Polak started seeing other strange items as well. "We
were stopping these people and they had these little bottles
of Puerto Rican rum and little glass pipes and what we
called a torch, a torn-off piece of a coat hanger with a
cotton swab wrapped around it. What they were doing was
dipping the swab in the rum because of its high alcohol
content and then they'd put the rock on top of the glass pipe
and then they'd flame [the swab] up. But then again, you
learn, you know? There's nothing written on this shit."
Once word got out that the Five-O was wise and was
starting to bust people with rocks on them, Polak said,
"We'd drive by and see them put their hands in their
mouths. And we'd come back an hour later and they'd
either be overdosed or wired like a motherfucker, jumping
all around like little tops. They'd put it in their mouths and
they'd leave it in so long it would start to dissolve, like an
aspirin. These guys were falling all over."
Smarter users found crack to be an ideal drug for the
streets of South Central, where the cops tend to frisk young
black men just for looking at them funny. Now you could
actually carry dope with you in public, and the cops couldn't
get there fast enough. "It's easy to get rid of in a pinch.
Drop it on the ground and it's almost impossible to find,"
complained a Miami narcotics detective in 1986. "Step on
it and the damned thing is history. All of a sudden your
evidence ceases to exist."
The inner city of Miami started seeing crack about a year
after the Los Angeles market started, but on a much
smaller scale. Longtime Miami area drug researcher
James Inciardi, a criminology professor, wrote in 1988 that
"although crack in one form or another appeared in Miami

===== PDF PAGE 226 =====
as early as 1982, at first it was generally limited to the
Caribbean and Haitian communities." The drug "advanced
to the wider drug subcultures in 1984," Inciardi wrote. "By
early 1985, crack had become widely available in every
inner-city neighborhood in the greater Miami area."
According to several sources, 1985 was the year
Jamaican posses took over the nascent crack market in
inner-city Miami and began organizing and expanding it.
Though the Miami market trailed the L.A. market by about a
year or two, the similarities between them are striking in
some respects. Both markets exploded following political
upheavals in foreign countries—upheavals in which the CIA
played an active role.
Just as the South Central crack market began flourishing
when political exiles from Nicaragua arrived to raise money
for themselves and their political causes, the Miami crack
market didn't really take off until political exiles from
Jamaica moved in. The intelligence division of the Drug
Enforcement Administration, in a 1994 report on crack
cocaine, offered a startling explanation for the evolution of
the Jamaican posses from small-time dopers to "one of the
most effective trafficking groups" in the United States,
rivaled only by the Crips and Bloods of Los Angeles.
Since the 1970s Jamaica had been run by a socialist
government headed by Michael Manley, a graduate of the
London School of Economics, who immediately angered
U.S. officials by recognizing the Cuban government of Fidel
Castro and supporting socialist rebels that a CIA proxy
army was battling in Angola. In 1977 two investigative
reporters exposed a "destabilization program" against
Manley's government reportedly being run by the CIA's
Jamaican station chief, Norman Descoteaux. The
campaign included covert shipments of arms to Manley's

===== PDF PAGE 227 =====
opponents, the use of selective violence, bombings, and
assassinations, covert financial aid to the conservative
Jamaica Labour party, the fomenting of extensive labor
unrest, and bribery.
One of the CIA agents who would later play a key role in
the Contra project, Luis Posada Carriles—a Cuban Bay of
Pigs veteran with a history of engaging in arms-for-drugs
deals—was sighted in Jamaica near the scene of at least
one bombing, the reporters wrote.
During the course of a bitter election campaign in 1980
between Manley and a candidate from the CIA-backed
Jamaican Labour party, rival political gangs killed "more
than 700 people," according to the DEA. Manley lost the
election. What happened next was in many ways a carbon
copy of what had happened in Nicaragua and Los Angeles
a year earlier, despite the fact that here the political
changing of the guard was roughly the reverse of the
Nicaraguan situation. "Following the election, many of
these political gunmen left or were driven out of Jamaica
and immigrated to the United States. They settled into the
large Jamaican and Caribbean communities in Miami and
New York City," the DEA intelligence report stated. "In the
early 1980s, the U.S. posse leaders maintained a sense of
allegiance to their political parties in Jamaica, sending
weapons and drug profits back home." Eventually, the DEA
said, the Jamaican traffickers in the United States "evolved
from small-time marijuana sellers into nationwide cocaine
and crack distributors."
The political leanings of Miami's and South Central's
major cocaine suppliers were not known to lower-level
dealers and hustlers, who probably wouldn't have cared
anyway. Dope was dope. Politics was polities. And it
wasn't until one got to the very top of the cocaine business

===== PDF PAGE 228 =====
that the two worlds intersected.
Ricky Ross had no political interests at all, and never
would. His worldview was limited to South Central, and how
much cocaine he could move into it. What his Nicaraguan
suppliers were doing with their money was their business,
he figured.
What he was concerned with in late 1982 was that the
new crack market in South Central wasn't turning into the
money-maker he'd been expecting. Dealers had gotten
away with charging more for powder, he said, because it
sold in more expensive doses. When you were talking to
someone about $300 for a gram or $3,000 for an ounce,
you could pack a little more profit in around the edges, and
nobody would say anything. "We was making more money
when it was powder," he groused. "[The market] went to
powder and rock, and eventually just went straight to rock
because 
everybody
 had stopped snorting. I had to get out
on the street myself and sell $20 rocks, run at the cars."
The reason crack became so popular in South Central
and elsewhere was that it only cost a few bucks to become
a customer. Crack normally sold in $25 hits, but you could
find tiny rocks for as little as $5. "One of the principles of
modern marketing is to develop products for increasingly
small market segments at prices each segment can afford.
Crack pushers accomplished this by creating prepackaged
units at more-or-less standard sizes and prices," drug
experts David Allen and James Jekel wrote in 1991.
Yale cocaine expert Dr. Robert Byck agreed that crack
was a triumph of modern marketing principles. But there
were more reasons than packaging for why it took off so
quickly, he said. "I think the crack phenomenon is not just a
matter of smoking freebase. What happened with crack
was a change in the selling, distribution, and price. It was

===== PDF PAGE 229 =====
sold in a very convenient form, which was accessible to a
wide range of people. Smoking, unfortunately, in our
society is not an abnormal behavior. Injecting something
intravenously is. Snorting something into your nose is
abnormal.
"So here was a way of taking a drug that was completely
within the range of so-called normal behavior. And. . .gave
you the same kick that you got from shooting it
intravenously, but this was free of the risk of AIDS. It was
socially acceptable and, on top of that, the drug was sold in
a very convenient unit package. This was to drugs like
McDonald's was to hamburgers. They knew how to sell it.
And I think that what happened to crack was, they knew
how to sell it."
Crack's second big advantage over powder was that it
democratized cocaine not only for users but for dealers as
well. It didn't take a large investment anymore to call
yourself a player. You could buy half a gram of powder for
$150, rock it up, and get ten to twelve doses of crack, each
of which would give the buyer a bigger blast than ten times
as much powder. And you doubled your money.
"Crack increases its own on-the-street sales force
because many addicts find they must become pushers in
order to make enough money to sustain their own habits,"
Allen and Jekel wrote. "And they can get cocaine powder at
'wholesale' prices this way and make their own crack."
For Ross, that was the biggest problem with crack. Now
he had to worry about competition from customers as well
as other dealers. Competition meant fewer customers, and
that meant less volume, negating the very advantage of
selling crack in the first place. At the same time, his costs
were going up; crack cost more to make. When he sold
powder, all he needed was a scale and a bag of lactose.

===== PDF PAGE 230 =====
Now he needed a place to cook the shit up, because he
couldn't do it in his cousin's apartment. He had to rent an
apartment and pay rent bills and power bills. And then he
needed vials, and people to help put the crack in the vials.
To get the necessary volume, they had to pay people to go
out and sell it, because he and Ollie couldn't do it all by
themselves now. Overall, it was a bigger headache, with
lower profits.
Since standardization had eliminated Ross's strategy of
cutting street prices and boosting volume, he had to figure
out another way to raise his profits. Fortunately, Danilo
Blandón was a stickler for quality, and Henry's cocaine was
of a very high purity. By experimenting, he found that he
could dilute the cocaine even further, 
before
 he mixed it
with the baking soda, and his customers couldn't tell the
difference. Because the dope was being cooked and
smoked, purity and appearance didn't matter as much as it
once had.
"We called it 'blowup' and what we would do is cut it with
procaine," Ross said. "You could get more weight and it
would look bigger." Ross settled on a three-to-one cut,
which turned one ounce of powder into four ounces. "You
could turn it into as many as you wanted but the more you
cut it, the less it was acceptable. . .one batch we cooked up
we couldn't sell it. Customers wouldn't take it no more."
Now he had four times as much crack to sell for roughly
the same cost. But a couple months later, other dealers
began using blowup too. That's when he decided to get out
of street-corner crack sales and get into wholesaling,
selling to other crack dealers.
There was a new thing happening in parts of South
Central and the San Fernando Valley suburb of Pacoima:
rock houses, which some dealers had set up as one-stop

===== PDF PAGE 231 =====
shopping centers for crack. You made your crack in the
kitchen, sold it in the dining room, and the customer
smoked it in the living room. When they were out, the cycle
began again. Since crackheads smoked hit after hit after
hit until they ran out of money, it made more sense to get
them in the house and keep them there, rather than go to a
park or stand on the street drawing a crowd by making
repeat sales all day long. Some of the more enterprising
rock house operators had "strawberries" back in the
bedroom if that's what you wanted, crack whores who
would suck a dick for a suck on the pipe.
James Inciardi had been a drug researcher in Miami for
years and considered himself to be a hardened and
streetwise observer. But nothing, he wrote, prepared him
for the nightmarish world of a crack house. "I observed what
appeared to be the forcible gang-rape of an unconscious
child. Emaciated, seemingly comatose, and likely no more
than 14 years of age, she was lying spread-eagled on a
filthy mattress while four men in succession had vaginal
intercourse with her," Inciardi wrote. "After they had finished
and left the room, another man came in and they engaged
in oral sex." Inciardi discovered that she was a "house girl,"
who got food, clothing, a roof over her head, and all the
crack she wanted if she put it out for the customers.
That
 was where he could still use his high-volume, low-
price strategy, Ross decided. Those new rock houses and
those baby brand-new dealers out there—those hustlers
buying half-grams and "slanging" on the corners—they
would be his customers. Ricky would sell his "ready rock" in
batches, cheaper than they could make it themselves,
prepackaged and ready to peddle. And the other dealers
could have the street trade and the competition and cops
that went along with it.

===== PDF PAGE 232 =====
The move, which Ross places near the end of 1982,
worked. It reduced his operation's costs and took him off
the streets. It reduced his customers' costs as well. He
moved once again into an arena with no competition,
where he was free to set his own prices, cherry-pick the
best customers, and undercut anyone who tried to move in
on him.
"We was like. . .the first quantity dealers," Ross said.
"Because there wasn't nobody really dealing quantity in
L.A. at that time." Others agreed. "Ricky, as far as I'm
concerned, I mean, there had to have been someone
before him to hand him a rock, but he had to be one of the
very first people, if not 
the
 first guy, to really sense the
economic potential of street-level marketing," 
L.A. Times
reporter Jesse Katz said in 1995. "In my story I called him
the first crack millionaire to rise from the streets of South
Central." Katz's 1994 profile, headlined "Deposed King of
Crack," said of Ross, "He didn't make the drug and he
didn't smuggle it across the border, but Ricky Donnell Ross
did more than anyone else to democratize it, boosting
volume, slashing prices and spreading disease on a scale
never before conceived."
Ross told CIA inspectors that he was South Central's
biggest cocaine dealer by the end of 1982. "I knew this
because it was my business strategy to know my
competitors and stay on good terms with them," Ross told
the agents.
James Galipeau, a longtime probation officer in the
South Central area, said Ross was indeed a pioneer. "The
thing about Rick that set him apart from the other guys who
started out selling when he did, guys like Honcho Day and
Michael Harris, is that pretty soon, they ended up buying
from him. And they were learning from him."

===== PDF PAGE 233 =====
But it seemed that as soon as Ricky got one problem
solved, another one would crop up. Now Henry was
freaking out on him. Henry had never been all that reliable
to begin with, Ross said, but he was getting worse all the
time. He wasn't showing up when he said he would.
Sometimes at night he didn't want to come down to the
'hood. And he was looking real nervous when he came.
Rick didn't like it. Henry was still his only supplier. If he took
a hike like Ivan did, Rick would have to find another quantity
dealer with Henry's prices. Fat chance of that.
As it turned out, something 
was
 going on with Henry. He
didn't have the stomach for the business. And the more
cocaine he sold to Ricky Ross, the more fretful he became.
By late 1982 or early 1983, Ross said, Henry had gone
from selling him ounces to selling him kilograms. And
Blandón said he was selling many, many kilos to Ross
through Henry.
"How many kilos a week?" Blandón was asked.
"To Henry?"
"To Henry, to Ricky."
"To Henry could be 10 or 15," Blandón said.
"Ten to fifteen?"
"Yes."
"Would 50 a month be a fair estimate?"
"In 1983, it. . .through Henry, yes."
That means Ricky Ross—within a year of crack's first
real appearance in South Central L.A.—was selling
between 1,000,000 and 1,250,000 doses of crack every
single month (using DEA estimates of 20–25 rocks of
crack per gram of powder, 20,000 to 25,000 per kilogram).
During 1982 and 1983, Blandón said, he and Meneses
brought "three or four" planeloads of cocaine from Miami to
Los Angeles. According to the Torres brothers, each one of

===== PDF PAGE 234 =====
those loads from Miami ranged between 200 and 400
kilos. These "regular" flights continued until at least 1984,
they said. (Whether all of that was sold to Ross, or was
divided among other customers of Meneses and Blandón,
is not clear.)
Blandón said Henry's cocaine deals with Ross began
frightening the novice dealer. "He was selling him so often
he was getting so paranoid, you know?" Blandón said.
"Somebody from his organization was in jail. . .. He told me,
'I've got $200,000, $300,000, I'm going to leave.'"
Corrales, Blandón said, planned to retire to the relative
safety of Honduras. "He feel that he got a lot of money and
he told me, 'Let me introduce you to my guy because my
brother-in-law is still in the hospital.'" Blandón explained
that Ivan Arguellas was still considered "the owner of Ricky
Ross" by Henry, but since Ivan was laid up, and Henry was
leaving town, Henry wondered if Blandón would mind
dealing with Ricky.
Henry was not turning over his best customer for free,
though. Blandón would have to continue splitting
commissions with him. "He wanted to leave to Honduras,
be there and get some commission," Blandón said. "He
wanted that I give some commission to him, you know?
That was the proposal." Blandón agreed, and Henry took
him down to South Central to meet the rising young crack
magnate.
"He introduced me, right in front of the house of Mary,"
Blandón said, referring to Mary Monroe, a friend and
employee of Ross. "It was in South L.A.. . .. that was the
house that later came to be the warehouse for money, and
to deliver."
Ross recalled the meeting well. "We had a place, one of
the ladies in our neighborhood, we used to hang out in her

===== PDF PAGE 235 =====
back yard and play pool, mess with her daughters. Danilo
met us in the front yard. Henry came in the back and
knocked on the door and said he wanted to talk to me. He
said, 'Come on. Let's go for a ride.' So we got in the car
and we were riding around and he said, 'I'm leaving and I'm
going to turn you over to the man. He's gonna do a better
business than what we been doing and you gonna have a
better price. Everything is gonna be better for you."
The price he paid for his cocaine fell once again. "After
we started talking directly with Danilo, I mean the price was
just. . .everybody was saying it was the bottom. That's what
they used to say. 'You've got the cheapest price in town.'
Everybody else was paying like $3,000 for an ounce of
cocaine and when me and Ollie started dealing directly with
Danilo, I think we was getting it for like $1,800 an ounce."
After his trip to South Central, Blandón knew why Henry
was nervous. It was "a rough area" of town, he said, and the
place fairly bristled with firearms. For his first drug delivery,
"We went to an apartment that was on the second floor and
there was a door, an iron door. And there was a guy, you
know, with a shotgun: 'Who are you?' We identify ourselves,
then you have to pass another guy with another machine
gun, or shotgun. And inside, near the dinner table in the
living room, there were about five guys, and all the guys
were there with a gun at the table."
When asked to date that encounter, Blandón was
unclear. "1982," he said under oath. "Excuse me. Sorry.
1983. 1983, I think so really. 1983. Excuse me, I make a
mistake. 1984, because I was living in Northridge. Yes,
1984." Ross said he was introduced to Blandón about six
or seven months after he started dealing with Henry, which
would put his first face-to-face meeting with Blandón some
time in the fall of 1982 or early 1983.

===== PDF PAGE 236 =====
Henry's retirement also seemed to improve the quality of
the cocaine Ross was getting. When he took it to the
dealers who were his customers, they raved about it. "They
said that the stuff was not cut. It was pure." Ross had finally
reached the source, the wellspring from which pure, uncut
cocaine flowed in abundance. His street-dealing days were
over. Now, he was the man to see.
And true to form, he began to innovate. If there was a
neighborhood where the dealers were not pushing his
supply, Ross said, he would find the hood's top dealer and
pay him a friendly visit, bringing with him a couple kilos of
Danilo's finest, which he would give the rival dealer free as
a measure of his respect. Try it out and see what you think,
he would tell them. And then Ross would tell them the price,
and he would have another customer.
Other times, he would invite dealers to smoke parties,
where all the crack they wanted would be available on the
house. There was plenty more where that came from, they
would be told. And the price. . .
Ross said his first deal with Blandón was for "around
eight ounces." Blandón, however, said it was much more
than that, at least a kilo, and that their business grew
geometrically from there. "In those times, there were one,
two, three, four, five, six, maybe seven a day," he said.
"Every day."
At seven kilos a day, Ross was moving more than 200
kilos of cocaine every single month. That meant he was
pumping out around 165,000 vials of crack a day—5 million
rocks a month.
"There is no doubt that Ricky Ross created a massive
distribution network that poured enormous amounts of
crack into Los Angeles, and elsewhere, during the mid-
1980s," the Justice Department's Inspector General

===== PDF PAGE 237 =====
concluded in 1998, calling it a "huge drug empire."
"I had as many as five cookhouses. Because that was
our hardest thing, to cook. Once you cooked it, it was sold,"
Ross said. Compton crack dealer Leroy "Chico" Brown
told of visiting one of Ross's "cook-houses," and his
description matched the one Ross gave. A house in a
cheap neighborhood would be purchased by a front man
and gutted. The windows would be barred and steel doors
installed. Large, restaurant-size gas ranges and big
aluminum pots would be brought in at night and set up. And
then the cookers went to work. They would work in shifts,
arriving and departing as if they lived in the house. The only
visitors would be the couriers, one to drop off the powder
and the other to pick up the crack.
"They were stirring these big pots with those things you
use in canoes," Brown said with wonder. "You know, oars."
"Working around the clock, taking the age-old axioms of
good business to ominous extremes, [Ross] transformed a
curbside operation at 87th and Figueroa into the Wal-Mart
of cocaine," the 
L.A. Times
 wrote in 1994.
South Central L.A. had become a boomtown of sorts.
What happened there was reminiscent of what occurred in
the hills and hollows of Kentucky during the coal boom of
the 1970s, when seemingly worthless land was suddenly
worth millions. While most of the residents remained poor
and poorly educated, a few struck it rich overnight. Satellite
dishes started popping up near shacks. Big, expensive
cars—Cadillacs, BMWs and Mercedes Benzes—began
rolling through the streets.
In early 1983 stories began appearing in the 
Los
Angeles Sentinel
, the South Central area's black-oriented
news weekly, about the crack houses that were springing
up here and there. "I would say that things got worse when

===== PDF PAGE 238 =====
cocaine hit the streets in '83 because prior to that all the
brothers that were slangin' were selling water, Sherman,
angel dust, PCP, or whatever you wanted to call it," said
Leibo, an East Side Crip. "About '82 or '83 is when rocks
hit the streets hard."
Fed by an unending supply of cocaine from Danilo
Blandón, Ricky Ross's crack trafficking organization
prospered and grew unhindered by law enforcement in the
ghettos of Los Angeles. The cocaine business was turning
out to be exactly as he'd seen it in the movies.
"Right when I was starting to sell drugs 
Scarface
 came
out," Ross said, referring to the 1983 remake starring Al
Pacino as a cocaine kingpin. "A whole bunch of us went
and saw it, like 10 or 15 of us. We took our girlfriends, and
we see this guy who. . .don't have nothing and the next
thing, he's on top of the world." Like his fictional hero, Ross
said, "I became a drug-dealing legend."
Chico Brown, a Corner Pocket Crip who was also
heavily influenced by 
Scarface
, agreed. "You ask any of the
people who they looked up to back when they was startin'
out, and all of them will tell you it was Ricky Ross. He was
like a legend in the neighborhoods. He got a lotta people
started."

===== PDF PAGE 239 =====
"He would have had me by the tail"
B
arely a year had passed since the CIA had taken over
the financing of the Contras, and already the covert war
was no longer a secret. The week before the 1982
elections, 
Newsweek
 magazine published the first detailed
account of the Reagan administration's support of the
Contras: "America's Secret War: Target Nicaragua." The
cover story portrayed the Contras—whose forces had built
up to around 4,000 men by this point—as being in a
position to overthrow the Sandinistas. There were full-color
photographs of paratroopers dropping from the sky, which
made it appear as if the invasion was already under way.
But that was a gross exaggeration of reality. The
Contras, in truth, had just started receiving the American
weapons and supplies that Reagan had promised them a
year earlier. According to one account, the main source for
Newsweek
's story was none other than CIA director William
Casey, who wanted to ensure that the Contra project didn't
get shelved. Now that it was public knowledge that the
Reagan administration was helping the Contras, Casey's
reasoning went, it would look like a sellout—another Bay of
Pigs—if it stopped.
The reporting incensed some members of Congress,
particularly those who had been told by CIA officials that the
Contras were merely border guards, keeping the
Sandinistas from sending arms into El Salvador. The
Contras' first major act of war, in fact, had nothing to do with
El Salvador. Under CIA direction, two bridges linking
Honduras and Nicaragua were blown up in March 1982, an
operation Contra commanders considered to be the
opening shots of the war.

===== PDF PAGE 240 =====
In response to the 
Newsweek
 report, Congressman Tom
Harkin proposed a complete cutoff of funding for all
paramilitary activities against the Nicaraguan government.
The fact that the war was illegal, Harkin argued, was
nothing compared to the U.S. government cozying up to
"perhaps the most hated group of Nicaraguans that could
exist outside the borders of Nicaragua, and I talk about the
Somocistas
." Harkin called them "vicious, cutthroat
murderers" and urged Congress to "end our involvement
with this group."
When the Reagan administration heard about Harkin's
proposed amendment to the annual defense budget bill,
Oliver North later wrote, it "hit the roof. . .. The President let
it be known that if Congress approved the Harkin
Amendment, which was unlikely anyway, he would promptly
veto it." Instead, Congress passed the first Boland
Amendment, named for the Massachusetts Democrat,
Edward P. Boland, who authored it. Boland, a member of
the House Intelligence Committee, knew full well that the
CIA was funding the Contras, and he was not opposed to it.
But Harkin's move—making a public issue out of a secret
CIA project—had put Boland on the spot and riled up other
liberals. Boland told Harkin that Congress had no business
passing laws like the one he was proposing. That's why
there was an Intelligence Committee, Boland lectured, "to
keep the nation's secrets and exercise sensible and
prudent oversight." The Intelligence Committee, a body
generally protective of the CIA, had been one of the few
committees told of the secret Contra project.
To quiet Harkin and other liberals, Boland agreed to an
amendment that prohibited the use of taxpayer funds "for
the purpose of overthrowing the government of Nicaragua
or provoking a military exchange between Nicaragua and

===== PDF PAGE 241 =====
Honduras." The House passed it on Christmas Eve 1982
by a vote of 411–0.
No doubt the lawmakers were eager to get home for the
holidays, but the reason the Boland Amendment received
unanimous support was because it accomplished nothing.
It was largely a fraud, designed to make it look as if
Congress was cracking down on the Contra project without
actually doing so.
Internal government memos show that the CIA, the White
House, the Defense Department, and the Contras'
congressional supporters knew that the Contras had no
hope of defeating the Sandinistas. Since there was no way
in hell the Contras were ever going to overthrow the
Nicaraguan government, their supporters reasoned, they
could continue spending CIA funds despite the Boland
Amendment. If the Contras were given money for one
purpose—arms interdiction—and decided to use it another
way, well, that wasn't the CIA's fault, was it? The money
hadn't been given "for the purpose" of an overthrow.
Indeed, by early 1983, CIA dollars were pouring into
Honduras and Costa Rica in torrents. Best of all, the
Contras no longer had to ask their Argentine advisers for
permission to spend it. Most of the Argentines were called
home in 1982 after their country's disastrous war with Great
Britain over the Falkland Islands.
Enrique Bermúdez and the other top-ranking FDN
officials started living like real generals. In Tegucigalpa,
Honduras, Bermúdez moved into "an elegant two-story
place, all dark wood and balconies, overlooking the
Tegucigalpa basin from a lovely hillside lot in the exclusive
neighborhood of Ciudad Nueva." Bermúdez and his staff
spent their evenings dining on roasts, puffing cigars,
quaffing tequila, or carousing in the excellent casinos

===== PDF PAGE 242 =====
downtown. "Bermúdez had developed a taste for the
teenage girls his men were recruiting in Nicaragua,"
journalist Sam Dillon wrote in his 1991 book 
Comandos
.
"Bermúdez was inviting them from the base camps back to
Ciudad Nueva, one at a time, to try out as his 'secretaries.'"
Dillon wrote that the CIA was sending "tens of thousands
of dollars a month to Bermúdez's general staff to pay the
'family aid' salaries of his field commanders, and other
prodigious sums to buy food for the thousands of FDN
fighters." But much of that aid was being diverted and never
reached the soldiers in the field. The Southern Front
commanders in Costa Rica, Eden Pastora and "El Negro"
Chamorro, constantly complained that Bermúdez and his
CIA friends were stiffing them on the supplies, raking off the
best weapons and the best food and sending them
garbage—planeloads of diapers, feminine napkins, and
extra-large underwear. It wasn't merely unfair, they argued,
it was an insult to their manhood.
"Bermúdez's staff officers were pocketing the money,"
Dillon wrote. "They were also stealing half the CIA's food
budget. Though they routinely shipped only half the
necessary beans, rice and other foodstuffs to the base
camps, they were billing the CIA for full rations."
Several accounts, including Dillon's, paint a picture of
massive corruption inside the FDN, perpetuated by
Bermúdez and his closest associates, death squad leader
Ricardo Lau and millionaire land baron Aristides Sanchez.
At one point, dozens of midlevel FDN field commanders
petitioned to have Bermúdez fired for stealing money and
squandering supplies. Some CIA field officers were
pushing for his removal on the same grounds.
But Bermúdez had friends at CIA headquarters at
Langley, and after he contacted them about the incipient

===== PDF PAGE 243 =====
mutiny, the complainers were the ones booted out of the
FDN. The CIA brass felt they couldn't dump "the obedient
asset who'd helped construct their entire project," Dillon
wrote.
Still, congressional discomfort over the CIA's army was
growing. In May the House Intelligence Committee issued a
special report suggesting that the "operation is illegal" and
that the administration knew plainly that the Contras were
trying to overthrow the Nicaraguan government. On July 28,
1983, the House passed a resolution by a 228–195 vote to
stop all aid to the Contras. "Opposition in the House to
aiding the Nicaraguan rebels seemed almost
insurmountable and it would be easier for House
Democrats to block passage of a new aid authorization in
1984 than it had been to cut it off in 1983," former State
Department official Robert Kagan, a Contra supporter,
wrote.
Yet it was somewhere around this time, according to
Danilo Blandón, that he stopped sending the profits from
his L.A. cocaine sales to the Contras. At other times he has
said it was late 1982. In either case, Blandón said that the
reason he was given for halting the donations was that the
Contras had plenty of money.
"In 1983, okay, the Contra gets a lot of money from the
United States," he told a federal grand jury in 1994. "And
they were—when Reagan get in the power, Mr. Reagan get
in the power, we start receiving a lot of money. And the
people that was in charge, it was the CIA, so they didn't
want to raise any money because they have, they had the
money that they wanted."
"From the government?" Assistant U.S. Attorney David
Hall asked.
"Yes, for the Contra revolution."

===== PDF PAGE 244 =====
"Okay."
"So we started—you know, the ambitious person, we
started doing business by ourselves," Blandón said.
"To make money for yourselves?"
"Yes."
"There's a lot of money to be made?"
"Yes."
Blandón told CIA inspectors that FDN commander
Enrique Bermúdez came to California sometime in 1983
and told him personally that it wasn't necessary for the Los
Angeles group to raise any more money. "The FDN
needed people, not money, because the CIA was providing
money," he said Bermúdez told them. But Blandón's
mentor, Norwin Meneses, said Blandón remained a loyal
financial supporter of the Contras for the duration of the
war. Asked when Blandón stopped giving the Contras
monetary support, Meneses replied, "Never, as far as I
know."
Blandón said he was working for Meneses at the time
the Contra cocaine kickbacks ended. "I continued working
for a period of time, about six months, and then I changed
because Meneses was—it was the same thing. I wasn't
making any money." Blandón was tired of being stuck in the
middle of fights between Norwin and his estranged wife,
Maritza. Meneses was still charging him too much for
cocaine and was refusing to let him share in the spoils.
"When I was with Meneses, you see, I didn't make no
money at all," Blandón griped. "Meneses was charging me,
you know, a big price, that I couldn't meet. I couldn't make
enough money, you know, because all the time I owe him."
Blandón said he owed Meneses around $100,000 and
couldn't seem to reduce the debt because "I didn't make
any money. So I start looking for my own resource, or my

===== PDF PAGE 245 =====
own sources." He found them by going behind Meneses's
back and dealing directly with Norwin's L.A. suppliers—a
couple of Colombians he knew only as Luis and Tony, to
whom he had been delivering cash for his miserly boss. "I
used to deliver money to the Colombian connection from
Meneses, and I got a friendship with them and they know
how hard I was working at that time. It was easy for me to
ask them for credit because they knew how, how hard I
work at that time for them."
The Colombians were happy to help, Blandón said, and
encouraged him to strike out on his own. "When I fight with
Norwin, the Colombian people started, you know, pushing
me along, trying to cross Norwin, and they go with me and
talk to me that I can make it myself." Asking the
Colombians for cocaine on credit was not difficult. They
were used to working cocaine deals that way. They would
give you the cocaine and a few days to sell it. Then you'd
pay them what you owed. It was a clever way for the cartels
to expand their customer base in the United States and
keep their own exposure to a minimum.
The Colombians advanced Blandón fifteen kilos—worth
about $885,000—and they were off to the races. He started
out getting fifteen kilos a month and within a couple months
had progressed to thirty kilos a month. He left Meneses and
the Contras behind and concentrated on making money for
himself, he said.
But several parts of Blandón's story don't add up. He
testified that when he was supplying Henry Corrales in
1983, Ross was already selling up to seven kilos a day,
and Blandón said he had other customers as well. If
Blandón's testimony about the size of his initial dealings
with the Colombians is true, he wouldn't have had enough
cocaine to supply Ross for a week, much less a month.

===== PDF PAGE 246 =====
Before his purported split from Meneses he had been
selling far larger quantities of cocaine than that, he
admitted.
"And do you remember if you were getting large amounts
or small amounts from Mr. Meneses?" Blandón was asked
in 1996.
"At the end, large."
"And what is a large amount?"
"About 40, 50, at this time," he testified.
During his federal grand jury appearance in 1994,
Blandón was asked to estimate "how much total you would
have gotten from Norwin" during the time he was receiving
cocaine from him.
"How many I received from Norwin?"
"Yes."
"Well, it was—I received from him, okay, not for me,
because it was—I was only the administrator at that time. I
received, in L.A. about 200, 300," he said.
But if Blandón didn't make his first sale until the spring of
1982 and spent a year to eighteen months dealing only
ounces and grams, as he testified, it would have been
impossible for him to have sold 200 to 300 kilos for
Meneses by late 1982 or early 1983, when he claims he
broke from him.
In fact, evidence turned up by the FBI and DEA in later
years showed that Blandón and Meneses were still working
together as late as 1991. In August 1986 Blandón's and
Meneses's NADDIS files—computerized intelligence
profiles maintained by the federal government on
suspected drug traffickers—showed both men as current
associates. Moreover, if Blandón double-crossed Meneses
in 1982–83 by stealing his sources and his L.A. customers,
it is doubtful the men would have remained friends and

===== PDF PAGE 247 =====
business partners, yet they continued to operate hotels and
other businesses together in Nicaragua.
What appears to have happened is that Blandón
acquired additional sources of supply sometime in 1984
and became his own boss in L.A., while Meneses
remained in charge of the San Francisco drug operation.
And they continued working with each other and with the
Contras for years, more or less as equals.
Others who were present at the time confirm that this, in
fact, is exactly what occurred. "The principal group is
controlled by Blandón and is the focal point for drug supply
and money laundering for the others," an August 1986 DEA
report stated. "The other group is run by Meneses and is
located principally in the San Francisco area. . .. Per CI
[confidential informant] cocaine is often transported to the
Blandón association and then from Blandón to Meneses in
San Francisco." That DEA report, based on debriefings of
an informant inside Blandón's drug ring, showed Blandón
and Meneses working together so closely in mid-1986 that
they were sharing the same cocaine supplier and money
launderer.
In a 1992 interview with the FBI, Blandón's associate
Jacinto Torres told agents that Blandón continued receiving
cocaine from Meneses for at least two years longer than
Blandón admits. "As of approximately 1984, Blandón was
involved in cocaine sales in the Glendale, California area.
Blandón's supplier as of 1984 continued to be Norwin
Meneses," Torres told the FBI. Torres said Blandón's
cocaine business "dramatically increased" in 1984, and
that Meneses was flying planeloads of dope in from Miami
to keep up with the demand; "Norwin Meneses, Blandón's
supplier as of 1983 and 1984, routinely flew quantities of
200 to 400 kilograms from Miami to the West Coast.

===== PDF PAGE 248 =====
Blandón eventually 'separated' from Meneses and obtained
other sources of supply."
A 1990 DEA report, requesting the formation of a multi-
agency task force targeting Blandón and Meneses, shows
that the DEA also believed the two "disassociated" from
each other in 1984 but had, by the late 1980s, reunited to
head "a criminal organization that operate(s) internationally
from Colombia and Bolivia, through the Bahamas, Costa
Rica, or Nicaragua to the United States." The report
claimed their drug ring was getting its cocaine from the
politically connected Suarez family in Bolivia, and the
Ochoa family in Medellín, Colombia, the founders of the
notorious Medellín cartel. The Bolivian cocaine was coming
into Miami, the report said, and the Colombians' powder
was landing in L.A.
The DEA reported that Meneses had given Blandón his
start in Los Angeles in the early 1980s and that from 1982
to 1984 "Blandón had operated directly under Meneses."
After that, the DEA said, Blandón "began to work as an
independent drug distributor with several subordinates
working directly for Blandón."
That Blandón continued dealing with Meneses through
1984 was unwittingly confirmed by the 
Los Angeles Times
in a 1996 story that attempted to demonstrate that Blandón
and Meneses had split in 1982. The 
Times
 claimed to have
interviewed an unnamed "cocaine trafficking associate" of
Blandón, who said he was present at Meneses's house in
the Bay Area on a day when Meneses and Blandón were
celebrating the consummation of a big drug deal. "Danilo
and Norwin had done some business," the 
Times
 quoted
the associate as saying. "The deal involved 40 or 50 kilos.
The money was all divvied up. There was cash all over the
place. Norwin had steaks on the grill. It was going to be a

===== PDF PAGE 249 =====
big party."
The phone rang, and Meneses's girlfriend, Blanca
Margarita Castano, answered it and then shrieked, "'Jairo's
been arrested!' Well, everybody cleared out in a heartbeat.
They grabbed the money and ran. . .. I don't think anyone
turned off the steaks."
Records show Jairo Meneses was arrested on
November 26, 1984, roughly two years after Blandón
claims he quit dealing with Norwin. San Francisco cocaine
dealer Rafael Cornejo, a longtime wholesaler for Meneses,
also confirmed that Blandón and Meneses were still
working together then. "I didn't see him a lot, but I know he
was with Norwin in '84," Cornejo said. Blandón and
Meneses had paid him a memorable visit in San Francisco
that year, stopping by a commercial building Cornejo
owned on Chenery Street. Norwin wanted to store
something in his building, and Cornejo didn't ask what. "It
didn't matter to me. You know, if Norwin wants to do
something. . .I said, 'Anything you want.' I like Norwin, I
respect Norwin."
During that visit, Cornejo said, "Blandón starts telling me
he'd been doing lots of things with the black people down
there [in L.A.]. And I said, 'Yeah, so?' And he wanted to see
if I was interested in doing something up here. And I said,
'Why?' And he said I should get into the black thing. No one
cares about them, he tells me. When they start killing
themselves no one cares." Cornejo told Blandón "not to
play me with that race thing. Business is business, but don't
play me with that race thing. The difference between him
and me was that I grew up in San Francisco and it didn't
mean that much to us. But he grew up in Nicaragua, with
these rich and powerful people, and that's the way he
thought."

===== PDF PAGE 250 =====
Blandón's own experience had taught him that no one
cared about the cocaine that he was pouring into South
Central in 1984. By then, he'd been dealing ever-increasing
amounts to Ricky Ross for two years and had received no
interference from the police whatsoever. The only media in
L.A. that seemed alarmed by the spread of crack in black
neighborhoods was the African-American press. The white
newspapers didn't even know what crack was.
In December 1983, for instance, former L.A. Dodger
legend Maury Wills was arrested for driving a stolen car.
The 
Los Angeles Herald-Examiner
 noted that the
"arresting officers also found a small vial on the
automobile's front seat containing a white, rock-like
substance believed to be cocaine. Police said a clear
glass water pipe was found next to the vial." An LAPD
officer "refused to speculate if the water pipe may have
been used for free-basing, a technique in which cocaine is
smoked to intensify the high." The story said Wills was
"booked on the grand theft auto allegation pending further
identification of the white substance by the LAPD's
narcotics laboratory."
Starting in 1984, unlike what they'd been seeing one or
two years earlier, street cops like Steve Polak were
arresting low-level dealers in South Central with more
cocaine than they had ever seen before. The patrolmen
were reporting their finds to the LAPD's Major Violators
Unit but were getting nowhere, said Polak, who was one of
the LAPD's crack experts and lectured police departments
around the country. "A lot of detectives, a lot of cops, were
saying to them, 'Hey, these blacks, no longer are we just
seeing gram dealers. These guys are doing ounces, they
were doing keys.'" The Major Violators Unit, which dealt
primarily with Colombians and South Americans, found

===== PDF PAGE 251 =====
such reports hard to swallow. "They were saying, basically,
'Ahh, South Central, how much could they be dealing?'"
Polak laughed. '"The money's not there. We're not going to
bring in millions of dollars in seizures or large quantities of
coke down there.'" As a result, the crack dealers of South
Central "virtually went untouched for a long time. They
enjoyed quite a run there without anyone ever working
them."
The same could not be said for the Meneses
organization in San Francisco. Since 1981, it had been
under constant investigation by the DEA, the FBI, and the
California Bureau of Narcotics Enforcement (BNE). But
aside from a couple of nickel-and-dime busts of Norwin's
nephews, nothing much happened.
"Norwin was a target of ours, and his organization was
one that we'd worked on," said Jerry Smith, former head of
the BNE's San Francisco bureau. But Smith said
Meneses's network was so tight-knit that it was impossible
to get anyone inside. The Meneses organization, one
federal prosecutor wrote in 1993, had been "the target of
unsuccessful investigative attempts for many years."
Meneses, on the other hand, seemed to have much
better luck at infiltration than the police.
"There were some things that happened and I'm really
kind of reluctant to go into that particular thing," Smith said.
"It had nothing to do with the CIA or the FBI. It had to do with
one of my guys, who subsequently was fired. . .I think he
was trying to broker some information to somebody for
some money. And we got onto it very quickly and so he's no
longer around, and I don't think anything ever came to
fruition. But it was something that bothered us at the time."
Meneses, in an interview, boasted that he had a DEA
agent on his payroll who was feeding him information about

===== PDF PAGE 252 =====
the government's many investigations, allowing him to stay
one step ahead of the law.
Even if that's true, however, it does not fully explain the
drug lord's complete imperviousness to prosecution. It's
hard to imagine how one or two corrupt narcotics agents
could have held off the entire U.S. law enforcement
community, especially when the DEA and FBI had been
aware of Norwin's criminal activities since the 1970s. It
becomes even harder to fathom given the events that would
unfold in late 1984.
"Oh, he [Meneses] was totally protected by the U.S.
government," insisted Contra supporter Dennis Ainsworth,
a former San Francisco—area economics professor. "He
was protected by everyone under the sun."
That conclusion had been a difficult and painful one for
Ainsworth to reach. A staunch conservative and Republican
party stalwart, the tall, patrician Ainsworth had believed in
the Contras, and threw himself wholeheartedly into their
cause starting in late 1983, when he became involved in
efforts to assist Nicaraguan refugees who had settled in
San Francisco after fleeing the Sandinistas. The
Nicaraguans, he said, most of whom had been Somoza
supporters, had difficulty getting help from the liberal
churches in San Francisco, which Ainsworth claimed were
interested only in assisting refugees from right-wing Central
American dictatorships. "All of a sudden, bang, we've got a
problem in our backyard, and nobody wanted to help them,"
Ainsworth recalled. "And so, I met some of the Nicaraguans
and we started helping. Getting clothing donations and stuff
like that."
In February 1984, Ainsworth said, he saw an
announcement in the 
San Francisco Chronicle
 about a
seminar at the Sir Francis Drake Hotel concerning Central

===== PDF PAGE 253 =====
America and the Contras. He attended and met Julio
Bonilla, a Nicaraguan who was the local coordinator of the
FDN. The men chatted briefly and exchanged phone
numbers. (According to one published source, Norwin
Meneses helped finance that seminar at the Drake.) About
three weeks later, Ainsworth said, Bonilla called him and
invited him to an informal gathering at a house on Colon
Avenue in San Francisco, to meet with some of the
Nicaraguans who had helped put the seminar together.
Ainsworth found a pleasant group of middle-class
husbands and wives, many of them recent immigrants.
One, he said, had been Anastasio Somoza's dentist. Their
leader was a jovial pharmaceutical salesman, Don Sinicco,
known to others in the trade as "Mr. Maalox" because he
sold the popular antacid to local hospitals. Sinicco was not
Nicaraguan; he was born in Italy and lived there until 1938,
when Mussolini came to power. He later married a
Nicaraguan, Nydia Gonzales, the daughter of a powerful
Nicaraguan general, Fernando Gonzales. Through them, he
became fascinated with Nicaraguan politics.
As the covert war in Nicaragua escalated, stories about
the conflict began popping up in San Francisco's
newspapers, and Sinicco read them avidly, but not happily.
He believed the press was cheerleading for the
Sandinistas, and he fired off dozens letters to the
newspapers, chiding them for their "slant." Many were
published. "I got a reputation," he said proudly.
In late 1983, Sinicco said, he got a call from a man
named Adolfo Calero, the head of the political wing of the
FDN. Sinicco said Calero called him because of his letter-
writing campaign, which flattered him considerably. "He
said, 'We need someone like you to help us get the word
out. People will listen to you because you're an American.'

===== PDF PAGE 254 =====
So they contacted me, and I said that's fine." At Calero's
suggestion, Sinicco formed a small organization called
United Support Against Communism in the Americas
(USACA), and he and his friends began holding regular
meetings, casting about for ways to publicize the Contras'
plight.
Sinicco said he'd never met Calero before, but his wife
and Calero's wife were old friends. In Managua, Calero had
been a well-known businessman, a Chamber of Commerce
type who'd run the bottling plant for the local Coca-Cola
distributorship. He was also a CIA asset, someone the U.S.
government had hoped might replace Somoza as
Nicaragua's president before the Sandinista takeover.
According to former FDN director Edgar Chamorro, Calero
"had been working for the CIA in Nicaragua for a long time.
He served as, among other things, a conduit of funds from
the United States Embassy to various student and labor
organizations." In early 1983 the CIA had brought Calero
out of Nicaragua and installed him as the political director
of the FDN; his broad, acne-scarred visage soon became
the most familiar face of the Contra rebels in the United
States. Tall and imposing, Calero spoke English well, not
surprisingly for a graduate of Notre Dame University in
South Bend, Indiana. "Calero and Bermúdez were our main
links with the CIA," Chamorro declared. "They met
constantly with the CIA station chief."
In 1984 Calero began visiting San Francisco frequently,
Ainsworth and Sinicco said, and would usually stay at their
homes while in the city attending to FDN business. While
finding Calero personable and smooth, Ainsworth was
dismayed by the lack of political sophistication displayed
by the FDN support group Sinicco had assembled at
Calero's request. The Nicaraguans were eager and

===== PDF PAGE 255 =====
committed to the Contra cause, Ainsworth recalled, but
there wasn't a soul among them who knew anything about
working the American political system. "That little group that
used to meet at his house. . .would have done nothing if I
hadn't come over and said, 'Look, I'll set these things up.'
All Sinicco and his friends were thinking of doing was
writing a few letters to the editor. They had no connections
whatsoever. And I happened to walk in and I was a well-
connected guy."
Ainsworth gently suggested to the Nicaraguans that there
were other ways of drawing attention to their cause. Why
not sponsor a speaking tour for some Contra officials, such
as Adolfo Calero? Bring him to town, show him around, get
some press coverage. Sinicco, who was USACA's
president, said he and his friends were "very impressed"
with Ainsworth's ideas and his political connections and
voted to make him a director of their new group. "As far as I
knew, he was presumably very active in Republican
politics. He knew senators, he knew representatives, both
federal and in Sacramento. He knew the chairman of the
party. He seemed to be influential and was active
internationally in anti-Communist efforts," Sinicco said.
Ainsworth, he said, began opening doors all across San
Francisco. "He was the one who appeared to be able to
get us these bookings at places like the Olympic Club, the
Commonwealth Club. None of us belonged to those kind of
places. But he either did or knew people that did. He was
able to devote his full-time attention to the group. Most of
the rest of us were working men. We had businesses to
run, jobs to go to."
On June 4, 1984, Ainsworth arranged a private reception
for Calero at the exclusive St. Francis Yacht Club in San
Francisco with about sixty of the city's most influential

===== PDF PAGE 256 =====
business leaders and Republicans. "It was just a chance for
everybody to meet and greet. It wasn't a fund-raiser. Calero
was in the news, he was a newsmaker, and some people I
knew had expressed an interest in meeting him," Ainsworth
said. Calero gave a short speech, answered a few
questions, and mingled. "The cocktail party went very
smoothly," Ainsworth would later tell the FBI.
Afterward, Calero, Ainsworth, Sinicco, and about twenty
others drove over to Caesar's Italian Restaurant, one of the
many near Fisherman's Wharf. When the bill came,
Ainsworth said, a small neatly dressed man he had not
noticed before called the waiter over and picked up the tab
for the entire party. Ainsworth leaned over and asked a
Nicaraguan friend who Mr. Generosity was. "You don't want
to know," was the response he said he got.
Sinicco said he initially assumed one of the Mendoza
brothers—two strident Cuban anti-Communists who were
members of USACA—had paid the bill. "When we called
for the check, we were told it had been taken care of, and I
thought it was one of the Cubans who'd paid for it. I thought
Max [Mendoza]'s brother had paid for the dinner, and in fact
I went up and thanked him afterwards and I'm sure he
wonders to this day what I was thanking him for." Before the
evening was over, Sinicco was set straight by another
Nicaraguan: the big spender was named Norwin Meneses.
He owned a restaurant and a travel agency in the Mission
District. "I'd never heard of him," Sinicco said, "but we were
glad for the financial assistance."
At the end of the dinner, Ainsworth stood and announced
that in two days, Don Sinicco was going to be hosting a
cocktail party for their esteemed guest, Adolfo Calero, and
that everyone in the room was invited.
At the party two days later, Norwin Meneses came in with

===== PDF PAGE 257 =====
the crowd dressed in an expensive white linen sports coat
with a cashmere overcoat draped over his arm. Sinicco
said Meneses spoke to Calero briefly, and the two men
retired to a back bedroom, apparently for a meeting.
Ainsworth confirmed that. Calero has said he never met
privately with Meneses.
Later, as the party was winding down, Sinicco got out his
Instamatic camera and began snapping pictures of the
historic occasion. He got a shot of some of the wives
posing behind a handmade cloth map of Nicaragua. He
snapped one of Max Mendoza, the Cuban, with a big grin
on his mustachioed face. Sinicco found Calero in the
kitchen, huddled by the refrigerator with Meneses, San
Francisco FDN coordinator Julio Bonilla, and some other
local FDN officials. He told the group to smile and lined up
the shot, but just as he snapped the shutter, Meneses
closed his eyes and turned away. "Let me get another real
quick," Sinicco said. This time Meneses kept his eyes
open, but he didn't smile. He looked at Sinicco and glared.
Calero posed with a tight smile on his face.
Sinicco suddenly remembered Meneses from the
restaurant two nights earlier, and he approached him and
thanked him for his kindness. "I told him that now that he
knew where we lived, he should come to our next [USACA]
meeting and he said that he would, but that he really
needed to leave now."
After that Meneses began attending USACA's meetings,
Sinicco recalled, usually arriving with the Mendoza
brothers, who ran a Cuban anti-Communist group in San
Francisco. Ainsworth said he did not believe there was a
connection between Meneses and the Cubans, other than a
political one. However, a former FDN mercenary from
Florida, Jack Terrell, said Meneses was plugged tightly into

===== PDF PAGE 258 =====
the Cuban exile community in Miami. "He assisted the
Cuban Legion in their radio propaganda shows coming
from Miami," Terrell said, adding that Meneses was an
associate of several members of the 2506 Brigade, which
was made up of Bay of Pigs veterans.
Sinicco showed the author attendance records, minutes
of meetings, and other assorted paperwork he kept as
USACA's president. One of the documents he provided
was a handwritten note that he said were his talking points
for one of USACA's earliest meetings. "Our first time
venture as USACA has proven highly successful," Sinicco
had written, and he listed "seven successes." The first was
that "Adolfo was brought over."
Success No. 6: "We are receiving some attention from
some Cuban people who appear eager to help."
Success No. 7: "Mr. Meneces' [sic] contribution."
Meneses dropped a $160 contribution on the little group
one night, Sinicco said, and picked up another dinner for
$324.20.
According to Sinicco's files, another founding member of
USACA was Father Thomas F. Dowling, a San Franciscan
whom Sinicco said was "some kind of a priest." Though he
sometimes passed himself off as a Roman Catholic priest,
Dowling was an ordained member of a tiny splinter church
called the North American Old Roman Catholic Church of
the Utrecht Succession, a church whose legitimacy is a
matter of some debate. While working with USACA and the
Contras, Dowling appeared before Congress in 1985
sporting a clerical collar and identifying himself as a
Catholic priest, to testify as a purported witness to
Sandinista atrocities. His appearance had been arranged
by the State Department's Office of Public Diplomacy for
Latin America, later described by congressional

===== PDF PAGE 259 =====
investigators as an illegal CIA-run domestic propaganda
mill.
"Senior CIA officials with backgrounds in covert
operations, as well as military intelligence and
psychological operations specialists from the Department
of Defense, were deeply involved in establishing and
participating in a domestic political and propaganda
operation run through an obscure bureau in the Department
of State," a 1992 House committee staff report concluded.
"Almost all of these activities were hidden from public view
and many of the individuals involved were never questioned
or interviewed by the Iran/Contra committees."
Through that office, the CIA and the National Security
Council engaged in "a domestic, covert operation
designed to lobby the Congress, manipulate the media and
influence domestic public opinion," the report said, echoing
a 1987 investigation by the Comptroller General of the
United States, which said the State Department had
engaged in "prohibited, covert propaganda activities."
Dowling later admitted receiving about $73,000 in cash
and travelers checks from Oliver North, CIA agent Adolfo
Calero and other members of North's operation between
1986 and 1987 "to affect public opinion favorably toward
the Reagan position inside, regarding Central America."
Dowling testified that the money went to a non-profit
organization he'd set up in San Francisco called the Latin
America Strategic Studies Institute (LASSI). In addition to
Dowling, LASSI employed a recently retired CIA officer with
extensive Latin American experience, G. James Quesada,
a Nicaraguan who lived in the San Francisco area. "I met
[Quesada] when I spoke before the retired group of
intelligence officers a few years back," Dowling testified in
1987.

===== PDF PAGE 260 =====
Quesada confirmed that he worked with Dowling but said
he did so as private citizen, not for the CIA. "I know nobody
thinks a CIA agent ever retires, but I really did retire," he
said in an interview, with a laugh. Quesada also met Norwin
Meneses and Danilo Blandón at an FDN meeting, and
instantly, he said, his antennae went up. "I found out what
Meneses was pretty quickly, but he was not involved in our
side of things, which was the political side," Quesada said.
Meneses and Blandón had something to do with "the other
side," meaning the military part of the Contra operation.
"As I recall, Blandón was looking for medical students or
was recruiting medical students to go down to Honduras. I
stayed away from both of them."
In addition to his work with Oliver North and the San
Francisco FDN, Father Dowling was also heavily involved
with CAUSA, a conservative political organization that was
part of the Rev. Sun-Myung Moon's Unification Church.
During the time of the CIA funding cutoff, Moon's
organization—which was linked in the 1970s to the Korean
Central Intelligence Agency—stepped in and began
funneling money and supplies to the Contras. Dowling was
a member of CAUSA's national advisory board and a
frequent speaker at CAUSA rallies and conferences.
Among the documents USACA founder Sinicco showed
the author was an August 1984 letter from CAUSA's
president, retired air force general E. D. Woellner, thanking
Sinicco's organization for attending the annual CAUSA
convention and suggesting that the groups work more
closely in the future.
Though the combination of fringe religions and the
Contras may seem strange, partly declassified CIA records
show that the agency had evidence as far back as 1982
that there were unwholesome connections between

===== PDF PAGE 261 =====
Meneses's drug ring, the FDN, and an unnamed religious
organization in the United States. According to a 1998 CIA
Inspector General's report, the CIA's Domestic Collection
Division picked up word in October 1982 that "there are
indications of links between (a U.S. religious organization)
and two Nicaraguan counter-revolutionary groups." The
heavily censored CIA cable said, "These links involve an
exchange in [the United States] of narcotics for arms."
The CIA's domestic spies reported that "there was to be
a meeting among the participants in Costa Rica regarding
this exchange" and that two U.S. law enforcement agencies
were aware of it. Though the agencies were not named in
the censored CIA cable, the FBI had the Meneses
organization under investigation at the time and had
learned through wiretaps that Norwin's Costa Rican Contra
associates—Horacio Pereira, Troilo Sanchez, and
Fernando Sanchez—were shipping cocaine to San
Francisco.
CIA headquarters ordered its domestic agents to get
more information about the upcoming meeting in Costa
Rica, and a few days later another cable arrived at Langley
with additional details. "The attendees at the meeting would
include representatives from the FDN and UDN, and
several unidentified U.S. citizens," the CIA cable reported.
It "identified Renato Pena as one of four persons—along
with three unidentified U.S. citizens—who would represent
the FDN at the Costa Rica meeting."
Renato Pena Cabrera was one of Norwin Meneses's
San Francisco drug dealers and a friend of Dennis
Ainsworth. Pena was dating Danilo Blandón's sister,
Leysla, and was a top official in the San Francisco FDN.
Pena told CIA investigators that he met Meneses in 1982
at an FDN meeting and served as an official representative

===== PDF PAGE 262 =====
of the FDN's political wing in northern California from 1982
until mid-1984. After that, he said, he "was appointed to be
the military representative of the FDN in San Francisco, in
part because of Norwin Meneses' close relationship with
[Enrique] Bermúdez."
Pena said Norwin introduced him to his nephew, Jairo,
who was in charge of distributing the family's cocaine to
other dealers. Soon, the young Contra found himself
hauling cash and drugs up and down the freeways of the
Golden State. "Pena says he made from six to eight trips
from San Francisco to Los Angeles between 1982 and
1984 for Meneses' drug trafficking organization," the CIA
Inspector General reported. "Each time, he says, he carried
anywhere from $600,000 to $1,000,000 to Los Angeles
and returned to San Francisco with six to eight kilograms of
cocaine. Pena says that a Colombian associate of
Meneses told Pena in general terms that a portion of the
proceeds from the sale of the cocaine Pena brought to San
Francisco were going to the Contras."
Even with the inflated cocaine prices of the early 1980s,
the amount of money Pena was taking to L.A. was far more
than was needed to pay for six to eight kilos of cocaine. It
seems likely that the excess—$300,000 to $500,000 per
trip—was the Contras' cut of the drug proceeds.
When the information about Renato Pena's involvement
in the upcoming Costa Rican meeting was relayed back to
Langley, CIA headquarters immediately ordered the
Domestic Collection Division to halt any further
investigation, allegedly because "of the apparent
participation of U.S. citizens." But the agency began having
second thoughts about sitting on the information. On
November 17, 1982, Langley worriedly cabled one of its
stations in Latin America to tell its agents that while

===== PDF PAGE 263 =====
headquarters didn't think the reports about the Contras and
drugs were true, "the information was surfaced by another
[U.S. government] agency and may return to haunt us. Feel
we must try to confirm or refute the information if possible."
Langley wanted to know if Contra leaders had "scheduled
any meeting in the next few weeks? If so, what information
do you have regarding the attendees?"
The response was probably not what CIA headquarters
wanted to hear. "Several Contra officials had recently gone
to the United States for a series of meetings, including a
meeting with Contra supporters in San Francisco," the
Central American CIA station reported back. (It was during
October 1982 that FDN leaders met with Meneses in L.A.
and San Francisco in an effort to set up local Contra
support groups in those cities.)
The CIA Inspector General's report is silent about what, if
anything, the agency did next. Pena told CIA inspectors that
the unnamed U.S. religious organization mentioned in the
CIA cables "was an FDN political ally that provided only
humanitarian aid to Nicaraguan refugees and logistical
support for Contra-related rallies, such as printing services
and portable stages."
When Renato Pena and Meneses's nephew Jairo were
arrested on cocaine trafficking charges in November 1984,
Ainsworth began suspecting that the FDN was also
involved in drug trafficking. "Renato wasn't a drug dealer,"
Ainsworth said. "He was a Contra and he was duped.
When Congress cut off aid in the fall of 1983, these guys
had nowhere else to turn and they wanted to get their
country back. And once you say I'll do anything to get my
country back, then they were easy prey for Meneses, who
said, 'Hey, you do this for me and I'll help you guys out.'"
Agents found a kilo of cocaine in the trunk of Pena's car.

===== PDF PAGE 264 =====
At an apartment Jairo Meneses maintained in Oakland as
a cocaine storehouse, the DEA found half a kilo in a safe.
Because the evidence against him was so overwhelming—
hand-to-hand sales to DEA agents and a kilo in his car—
Pena pleaded guilty to one count of possession of cocaine
with intent to sell in March 1985. He also agreed to help the
government prosecute Jairo Meneses, and was given a
two-year sentence in return.
As part of his deal with the government, Renato Pena
was extensively debriefed by the DEA and his interviews
were nothing short of astonishing—which is probably why
they remained sealed for 15 years.
"When debriefed by the DEA in the early 1980s, Pena
said that the CIA was allowing the Contras to fly drugs into
the United States, sell them, and keep the proceeds," the
Justice Department Inspector General reported in 1997.
Jairo Meneses had told him that "the United States was
aware of these dealings and that it was highly unlikely that I
would even get in trouble." Both Norwin Meneses and
Blandón told him they were raising money for the Contras
through drug dealing; Blandón had even claimed "the
Contras would not have been able to operate without drug
proceeds."
Further, FDN leader Enrique Bermúdez "was aware of
the drug dealing" and Pena described Bermúdez as "a CIA
agent." When challenged by CIA questioners on that
statement, Pena merely laughed. "It's very obvious," he
said: Bermúdez had been Somoza's military attache in
Washington and it was common knowledge in Nicaragua
that anyone who had that job under Somoza also worked
for the CIA. (Bermúdez, in fact, was on the CIA's payroll
from 1980 to 1991, which means at the least that he was a
contract agent, if not an agency officer.)

===== PDF PAGE 265 =====
As if Pena's testimony wasn't convincing enough, the
DEA obtained independent corroboration in the spring of
1986 from a longtime informant who'd known Meneses
since childhood described by the DEA as "extremely
reliable." He told a DEA intelligence analyst that Meneses
was indeed part of the FDN and had been using drug
money to buy weapons for the Contras. He also vouched
for Renato Pena's credibility: "Renato Pena worked for
Jairo Meneses and ran the San Francisco office of the
FDN," the informant explained. "Pena was one of the major
Contra fund raisers in San Francisco and was one of those
responsible for sending Meneses' drug proceeds to the
Contras."
In interview years later with inspectors from the CIA and
the Justice Department, Pena defiantly stood his ground,
even though he was under threat of immediate deportation.
He insisted that "the CIA knows about all these things. .
.The money the Contras received from the Reagan
Administration was peanuts and the growing military
organization needed supplies, arms, food, and money to
support the families of the Contras. The CIA decided to
recruit Meneses so that drug sales could be used to
support the Contras. Bermúdez could not have recruited
Meneses on his own. . .but would have had to follow
orders."
Ainsworth said Pena was devastated by his arrest and
confessed to him his role in the Contra drug network.
Alarmed, Ainsworth began looking into the relationship
between the FDN and drugs. He made "inquiries in the
local San Francisco Nicaraguan community and wondered
among his acquaintances what Adolfo Calero and other
people in the FDN movement were doing and the word that
he received back is that they were probably engaged in

===== PDF PAGE 266 =====
cocaine smuggling," Ainsworth later told the FBI.
During one of Ainsworth's trips to Washington in 1985,
he said, "I went to see some friends of mine and started
asking some questions." One friend slipped Ainsworth a
copy of a Drug Enforcement Administration intelligence
report dated February 6, 1984. The DEA report, prepared
by agent Sandalio Gonzalez in San Jose, Costa Rica, told
of the results of a debriefing of a confidential informant.
Ainsworth's heart sank as he read it. The informant "related
that Norwin Meneses Cantarero, Edmundo's younger
brother, was presently residing in San Jose, Costa Rica,
and is the apparent head of a criminal organization
responsible for smuggling kilogram quantities of cocaine to
the United States." The discovery left Ainsworth reeling: "I
had gone through the Looking Glass. I had crossed over
into the nether world that 99 percent of the population
wouldn't even believe existed."
In September 1985 Ainsworth was contacted by a U.S.
Customs Service official who was "investigating the
Nicaraguan role in a large narcotics ring extending from
Miami, Florida to Texas and California." The Customs
agent wanted to ask Ainsworth about the FDN. "During the
contact, [name deleted] complained to Ainsworth that
national security interests kept him from making good
narcotics cases and he acted frustrated at this chain of
events," Ainsworth would later tell the FBI. "According to
[name deleted] two U.S. Customs Service officers who felt
threatened and intimidated by National Security
interference in legitimate narcotics smuggling
investigations had resigned and had assumed false
identities." The FBI report went on to say that the Customs
agent "told Ainsworth that Norwin Meneses would have
been arrested in a major drug case in 1983 or 1984 except

===== PDF PAGE 267 =====
that he had been warned by a corrupt [information deleted]
officer."
Other law enforcement sources told Ainsworth "they had
a file on Meneses that was two feet thick. I thought this
bastard should have been arrested. I assumed there would
be an outstanding warrant on this guy. I was amazed. There
wasn't a single outstanding warrant on Meneses. Not one.
They had no interest in him whatsoever. Here you had a
major cocaine trafficker who was deeply involved with the
Contras, and apparently, everyone but me knew about it.
After I broke with Calero, I found out Calero and Meneses
were very good friends."
Calero has admitted meeting with Meneses on at least
six occasions in San Francisco, but he has portrayed them
as simple greetings during large public gatherings. He has
repeatedly denied knowing Meneses was a drug trafficker,
yet he admitted to a Costa Rican paper in 1986 that he
knew Meneses was "involved in some illegal things, but I
don't know anything."
USACA president Don Sinicco said he never suspected
Norwin Meneses was involved in criminal activities, but he
confirmed that Ainsworth began muttering about it. "What
always bothered me about [Dennis] is that towards the end,
I don't know what, he seemed to get disillusioned or
disgusted with Calero. Dennis got disillusioned about
something," Sinicco said.
Ainsworth's disillusionment caused him to quit working
with the Contras and seek out the FBI. In early 1987,
records show, during his first meeting with FBI agents,
Ainsworth warned them that the FDN "has become more
involved in selling arms and cocaine for personal gain than
in a military effort to overthrow the current Nicaraguan
Sandinista government." He told the agents about Norwin

===== PDF PAGE 268 =====
Meneses and Renato Pena, about Tom Dowling and Oliver
North, and about North's illegal Contra support network in
the U.S. and Central America. Much of the information
Ainsworth gave the FBI and, later, Iran-Contra prosecutor
Lawrence Walsh's staff about the inner workings of the
FDN and the relationships between Contra leaders and
U.S. government officials was corroborated during the
congressional Iran-Contra investigations.
Ainsworth was also getting death threats, he told the FBI,
but the agents seemed unimpressed. "He had no
information to substantiate this alleged threat," they wrote.
Ainsworth never heard from them again. "I mean, here I am
as a citizen, I complained to the FBI and they tell me they
have no interest in the case. Then I call Walsh's people up
and they sent a couple FBI guys out to talk to me and they
have no interest in it. I couldn't find anyone who was
interested in this. And I made a legitimate effort. And
people were like, 'Den, leave this alone. Just leave it
alone,'" Ainsworth remembered. "I thought I was part of the
establishment. And all of a sudden I was a leper."
Frightened and heartsick, Ainsworth fled California for the
East Coast, where he went into semiseclusion.
Meanwhile, the narcotics investigation that began with
the arrests of Renato Pena and Jairo Meneses seemed to
fall into a black hole. The case federal prosecutors had
assembled against the drug kingpin's nephew was a slam-
dunk. They'd found cocaine in Jairo's apartment; his
codefendant had cut a deal and was prepared to testify for
the government. If convicted of the charges against him—
one count of conspiracy to distribute cocaine and six
counts of possession with intent to distribute—Jairo
Meneses would spend the next fifteen years in the federal
pen. His decision to plead guilty and rat out Uncle Norwin

===== PDF PAGE 269 =====
could hardly be considered a surprise.
Like Pena, Jairo Meneses was debriefed by the DEA
and he, too, implicated the Contras in Norwin's drug sales,
confirming that his uncle had direct dealings with both
Blandón and FDN commander Enrique Bermúdez. But his
admissions in court were limited to the bookkeeping work
he'd done for Norwin in San Francisco; he never breathed
a word in public about the Contras.
Were these men telling the truth? If one looks at the
outcome of their criminal cases, the inescapable
conclusion is that they were. Inventing stories about Contra
drug trafficking was not the usual way admitted dope
dealers ingratiated themselves with Ed Meese and his
hypersensitive Justice Department. But despite being
caught red-handed with pounds of cocaine, they were
neither sent to jail nor deported. They got probation and a
work-furlough job and kept their mouths shut, which
suggests that the Justice Department found them entirely
too believable.
In an interview with a Costa Rican paper in 1986,
Meneses scoffed at his nephew's testimony. Jairo had
made it up, Norwin declared, because he'd refused to bail
the boy out when he'd gotten arrested. "If Jairo supposedly
was my accountant, like he says, I would have been
interested in taking him out of jail because he would have
had me by the tail," Meneses told 
La Nacion
. "Isn't that
logical?" (Norwin didn't mention that Jairo's bail was paid
by Danilo Blandón's sister, Leysla Balladares, who also
bailed out Pena, her boyfriend.) "Besides," Norwin added,
"I remained in San Francisco. I have never hidden. There's
never been a warrant for my arrest. I have not changed
passports. That I directed a drug trafficking organization is
totally false."

===== PDF PAGE 270 =====
Some of Meneses's assertions were indeed irrefutable.
With the testimony of Jairo Meneses and Renato Pena,
and the stacks of other evidence the police had compiled
against him over the years, it would have been a relatively
easy matter to have convicted the drug lord on any number
of trafficking and conspiracy charges. Many dopers have
gone to jail on much less evidence. At a minimum, the
government could have deported him as an undesirable
alien and banned him forever from the United States; he
was, after all, living in the United States as a guest of the
government—a political refugee.
But it didn't happen. Nothing happened. Norwin Meneses
continued living as a free man, crisscrossing U.S. borders
with impunity, dealing cocaine and sending supplies to the
Contras. And his relationship with the U.S. government
grew even closer.

===== PDF PAGE 271 =====
10

===== PDF PAGE 272 =====
"Teach a man a craft and he's liable to
practice it"
T
he potential exposure of Norwin Meneses couldn't have
come at a more inopportune time for the Contras, or the
CIA.
During the winter of 1984–85, the Contra forces were at
their lowest ebb, both on the battlefield and in the battle for
U.S. public opinion. For twelve months the Contras had
staggered from one public relations disaster to another.
There had been a major uproar in Congress in the spring of
1984, when it was revealed that the CIA cowboys running
the Contra project had seeded Nicaraguan harbors with
hundreds of small mines, which proceeded to
indiscriminately blow holes in merchant ships from all over
the world, including those from friendly nations. Shortly after
that, a bomb went off at ARDE commander Eden Pastora's
jungle headquarters during a press conference, wounding
Pastora, killing or injuring a score of ARDE officials and
journalists, and throwing the Contra armies in Costa Rica
into turmoil.
Later in the year, in the midst of Reagan's reelection
campaign, an illustrated terrorism manual the CIA printed
up for the boys in the field ended up in the newspapers,
creating yet another public outcry and much congressional
breast-beating.
The hardest blow came in October 1984. With the
administration off balance and desperately hoping to avoid
any more CIA-Contra controversies before the elections,
the Democrat-controlled Congress succeeded in passing
yet another Boland Amendment. Unlike the earlier ones,
though, this had some teeth.

===== PDF PAGE 273 =====
It prohibited the CIA, the Defense Department, or any
other agency of the U.S. government from giving any money
or aid to anyone for the support of the Contras. The money
spigot had been officially turned off; the loopholes were
sewn shut.
The CIA and Defense Department began withdrawing
their trainers, advisers, administrators, tacticians, and
logisticians from Central America, and by the end of the
year the Contras were alone and in disarray. Thousands of
rebel fighters began retreating from Nicaragua for the
safety of Honduras. Money was scarce; weapons and
ammo were in even shorter supply.
In early 1985, as the Contras spent their last batch of CIA
money, another mini-scandal erupted. Allegations of Contra
battlefield atrocities surfaced in reports from human rights
groups, spotlighting murders, tortures, assassinations, and
"the deliberate use of terror" by some Contra field
commanders, putting the lie to Reagan's characterization of
them as "freedom fighters," showing instead their
connection to Somoza's hated National Guard.
Even the FDN's normally optimistic handlers in
Washington began to despair. Reagan's national security
adviser, Robert McFarlane, told FDN leader Adolfo Calero
in January 1985 that maybe it was time to start thinking
about "cutting both our losses and theirs." The
administration's prestige was riding on the Contras;
Reagan had gone so far during a speech as to compare
them to the founding fathers of the American Revolution.
The FDN's only ray of hope was to withdraw from battle and
lie low until the spring, when Congress agreed to let the
administration come back and make one more pitch for
money.
Had Norwin Meneses popped up then with a federal

===== PDF PAGE 274 =====
cocaine trafficking indictment around his neck—after all the
meetings he'd had with FDN directors Adolfo Calero,
Enrique Bermúdez, Edgar Chamorro, and Frank Arana—
the resultant scandal would likely have wiped out what little
support the Contras had left in Washington. It would have
also again tarred the CIA, which was reeling from the
exposure over the harbor minings and assassination
manuals. Even if nothing could have been proven
conclusively about the CIA's involvement in the Contra drug
ring, the agency was supposed to be the nation's primary
intelligence-gathering arm—and its responsibilities
specifically included monitoring the international narcotics
trade. A plea of ignorance about dope dealing by its own
paramilitary forces would have looked as bad as proof of
complicity.
And that was assuming Meneses kept his mouth shut. If
he started naming names, dates, and places, the scandal
could well have spread into the CIA itself, as it would eleven
years later. Former assistant U.S. attorney Eric Swenson,
who was familiar with the investigations into Meneses, said
the drug lord's activities with the Contras were well known
to the Justice Department because he had personally
reported it. And Justice wasn't the only agency that knew
about it.
"The CIA knows about this guy," Swenson said in an
interview. "I'm sure they do. I'm 
sure
 they do. The CIA
knows a lot of crooks. I mean, the CIA knows." As it turned
out, Swenson was right. A 1998 CIA Inspector General's
report confirmed that, as early as 1984, the agency had
information tying Meneses to a drug and arms network in
Costa Rica, in partnership with top Contra official
Sebastian "Guachan" Gonzalez.
Against that backdrop, and given the cozy relationship

===== PDF PAGE 275 =====
that existed between the CIA and San Francisco's U.S.
attorney, Joseph Russoniello, it is hardly surprising that
Norwin Meneses was not charged with drug trafficking in
the spring of 1985. Even though one of his top lieutenants
had pleaded guilty to cocaine charges and publicly
implicated him as a major trafficker, allowing Meneses take
the witness stand was out of the question. The drug lord
simply knew too much. Not only was he in a position to
expose the FDN's long involvement with drug merchants,
but he could have led the police and the press to Danilo
Blandón's booming enterprise in South Central Los
Angeles.
And what a fine picture that would have presented.
Blandón was dumping a small mountain of cocaine into
L.A.'s black neighborhoods every week, as well as
providing South Central's crack dealers with assault rifles,
submachine guns, and sophisticated telecommunications
and eavesdropping gear.
Blandón was having the time of his life. As far as he and
Ricky Ross were concerned, 1984 had been a terrific year.
And 1985 was only going to be better. For one thing,
Blandón was now an official guest of the U.S. government.
The State Department, after two earlier rejections, had
suddenly changed its mind in 1984 and decided to approve
his application for political asylum. Now he could stay in
America indefinitely and no longer had to worry about being
summarily tossed out of the country. Had that fact been
made public, all the propagandists and spin doctors in
Washington would have been hard pressed to explain why
the "Just Say No" administration had allowed South
Central's biggest cocaine trafficker to call the United States
his home.
Though the administration could have claimed ignorance,

===== PDF PAGE 276 =====
there were easily obtainable records proving that the DEA
was fully aware of what Blandón was doing. Further, it is
State Department policy to check with the DEA before
approving applications for political asylum.
Records showed the drug agency had opened a
NADDIS file on Blandón on May 24, 1983, after getting a
tip from a confidential informant that he was a member of a
cocaine trafficking organization. His attorney, Bradley
Brunon, said in court in 1992 that the DEA's voluminous
knowledge of Blandón's dope dealing stretched back even
further than that. "I have some 300 DEA-6 reports
regarding Mr. Blandón, and the reports relate to activities
between approximately 1981 and May 1992," Brunon told a
San Diego federal judge.
In early 1984, while Blandón's asylum application was
under review at the State Department, the DEA learned
from an informant that Blandón was "the head" of his own
cocaine distribution organization based in Los Angeles,
information that, as history shows, was accurate.
The same odd sequence of events happened with
Blandón's wife, Chepita. First the DEA learned she was a
drug dealer, then the State Department gave her political
asylum. In early 1985 she was reported to the DEA as a
"member of a cocaine distribution organization," and on
March 15, 1985, the agency dutifully opened a NADDIS file
on her. Later that same year she was granted political
asylum.
Immigration experts agree that, normally, even the
slightest hint of drug involvement by an alien results in
deportation. "I've had clients deported because anonymous
sources, people who were never even identified to us,
allegedly told the DEA they were involved in drugs," said
one California immigration lawyer. "One of my clients, he

===== PDF PAGE 277 =====
was a college professor from Thailand, was denied entry
because he'd been arrested for smoking marijuana when
he was a 
teenager
, for Christ's sake. When it comes to
drugs, it's an almost automatic no." In an interview, a State
Department official confirmed there was a blanket zero-
tolerance policy for immigrant narcotics suspects.
Why those same standards didn't apply to Blandón and
his wife is not known, nor is it likely to be. When the Justice
Department's Inspector General looked at the Blandóns'
immigration records, he found them "in disarray."
During 1984 and 1985, Ross and Blandón have
admitted, their cocaine trafficking empire was at its zenith.
Ross was selling dope so fast he didn't have time to turn it
into crack anymore. He would just take Blandón's kilos, put
a hit on them, and pass them along to smaller crack
manufacturers, who more and more frequently were
members of various Crips "sets" from across Los Angeles.
"It continued growing, growing, growing, until sometime
he buy [from] me 100 a week," Blandón said. Ross was
driving him nuts with his constant telephone orders for more
kilos. "I was getting crazy because you have to move—I
was the, the man that made the delivery every day, so he
was calling me every day, two or three times. Sometimes
we deliver at 2 o'clock, sometimes we deliver at 4 o'clock,
and anytime—one o'clock, two o'clock, one 
A.M.
"
Blandón finally worked out an arrangement with his
Colombian suppliers to give Ross large amounts of
cocaine for little or no money up front—sell now, pay later. "I
spoke with the Colombian and I told him, 'Hey, let's go and
give some credit to this guy because he pays. He's a good
payer.' I give 20, the first 25 keys on credit and tell him,
'Hey, don't bother me until you got the money.'" That initial
advance by itself was worth about $1 million, wholesale.

===== PDF PAGE 278 =====
There was a reason Blandón wanted Ross out of his hair
for a while. The Blandón family had moved from Northridge,
a suburb near downtown L.A., to neighboring San
Bernardino County, settling into a sprawling Spanish-style
home in the city of Rialto, some thirty miles outside Los
Angeles. He'd withdrawn $175,000 in cash from his bank
account in Panama and given it to Orlando Murillo, the
former Somoza banker, who bought the house under his
name to keep Danilo's name off the property rolls. From his
hot tub on the terraced hillside behind his new house,
Blandón could gaze out at the bucolic, rolling hills and
towering pines of a country-club golf course.
In one sense, Blandón had a right to be proud of his
accomplishments. He was the epitome of Reagan-era
success, along with brigand financiers Ivan Boesky and
Michael Milken. In only three years he'd gone from working
in a car wash to running a multimillion-dollar-a-week
operation, employing, directly and indirectly, hundreds of
people, many of them inner-city residents who would have
otherwise had little or no income. Thanks to Blandón, they
were making thousands or tens of thousands of dollars a
week.
He was the chief supplier to the largest minority-owned
business in an area so forbidding that the government was
offering to pay companies just for moving there. Blandón's
"company" moved in and began producing high-paying
jobs without ever once asking for a handout. Unlike many
legitimate industries that merely pay lip service to the
concept, the cocaine industry is a fervent believer in the
get-government-off-our-backs philosophy of commerce.
The fact that Blandón's activities happened to be illegal
—as were Boesky's and Milken's, for that matter—was a
technicality. After all, it wasn't his idea to start selling drugs;

===== PDF PAGE 279 =====
he'd done it to help the Contras. He was furthering official
U.S. foreign policy in a very unofficial way.
As his longtime attorney Brad Brunon said, with a slight
laugh: "You teach a man a craft and he's liable to practice
it."
Blandón had practiced his craft well, and he was now
enjoying the fruits of his labors. He hired a live-in maid and
nanny for Chepita and his daughters, opened a restaurant
—the Nicamex—and bought a car lot in nearby Fontana
with an old college buddy, Sergio Guerra, a Mexican
millionaire whose family owned major automobile
franchises in Guadalajara. Guerra had the distinction of
owning the last parking lot on the California side of the
Mexican border in San Ysidro, which is like having a
license to print money. The government valued its worth at
around $29 million in the early 1990s.
Blandón's businesses were merely fronts through which
to launder his drug money and provide a respectable
explanation for his wealth and lifestyle. The used car lot—a
favorite ploy among Nicaraguan traffickers—was especially
handy. It was a cash-heavy business; lots of different
vehicles were moving in and out all the time and their trunks
were perfect places to store cocaine overnight, providing a
plausible denial in case of accidental discovery. Cars that
were sold for $2,000 were declared as being sold for
$4,000. The car lot paid taxes on $4,000—at a rate
cheaper than any money launderer would charge—and
suddenly, $2,000 in drug profits had a legitimate pedigree.
Now that Danilo was a suburbanite with businesses to
run, Ricky Ross certainly couldn't expect him to hop in his
Mercedes and come running down to South Central every
time Ross began getting low on blow. Blandón started
asking Ross to drive out to Rialto to meet him, or he would

===== PDF PAGE 280 =====
bring the cocaine only halfway into town, leaving it in a load
car at a shopping center parking lot.
Ross didn't mind the trips to Rialto, at first. Danilo and
Chepita were fun to be around, he said, and he grew close
to the couple and their daughters. "It would be just like any
other wife if one of the employees come by the house,"
Ross said. "She'd cook dinner for us. 'Here, this is your
room where you'll sleep at tonight. Here's your towels.'
Know what I'm saying? So, she was playing along with the
whole thing." Ross said she also knew the kind of business
her husband was in. Once, he said, he found kilos of
cocaine stored in their freezer, nestled in among the steaks
and ice cubes.
At other times Blandón would take Ross and Ollie Newell
out to dinner, question them closely about their business
dealings, and then offer advice on how to improve their
operations and safeguard themselves against both the
police and other dealers. One of the best pointers he ever
got from Blandón, Ross said, was "not to flash. Don't buy a
lot of jewelry. Don't dress too fancy. That was the way he
was. Always had on a nice suit and tie. Drove a nice car,
but not too nice, know what I'm saying? No way you would
look at him and say he was a dope dealer. Told us to buy
some businesses, invest our money, so you can explain
that you got a job. He taught us a lot."
The Torres brothers, in an interview with police in 1996,
confirmed that "Blandón became very close to Ricky Ross.
. .. Ross looked up to Blandón as a 'father figure.'"
But Ross noticed a change in his mentor's demeanor
after he joined the country-club set in Rialto. "Danilo started
getting relaxed. He didn't want to leave the house. 'I'm at
home, man, I dreenking.' Fuck that shit, man," Ross said.
Blandón was getting drunk frequently and snorting a lot of

===== PDF PAGE 281 =====
cocaine. "He would use so much his nose got red and he
kept trying to get me to use it. 'Here, just take a little.' I didn't
want no part of that shit," Ross said. "And I ain't never had a
drink in my life."
Blandón's habits would leave him soft and bloated. The
other Nicaraguan dealers began calling him 
Chanchin
, "the
fat pig." Ironically, that disparaging nickname turned up as
an alias in Blandón's DEA files.
It all made Ross a little nervous. The way he saw it,
people who got lazy got sloppy, and sloppy people made
stupid mistakes. This was a business where you couldn't
afford even one mistake. It had taken Ross two years to
perfect his delivery and distribution system—using
nondescript decoy cars and load cars, walkie-talkies, stash
houses, cash houses, and safe houses—and everything
was running smoothly. He'd never had any troubles with the
cops. Nearly every big crack dealer in town was getting
cocaine from him, and he'd done it without resorting to
attention-getting violence.
The dollar was a powerful persuader, he discovered.
There was no limit to the average cocaine dealer's greed.
You could buy your way into anything, or out of any
disagreement. But deep inside, Ross was gnawed by the
fear that his cocaine empire could vanish as suddenly as
his tennis career had, leaving him in jail, dead, or back out
on the streets, running at cars again.
When he looked closely at his operation, he saw a
glaring weakness: his exclusive relationship with Danilo
Blandón. It didn't make sense to have his entire life resting
in the hands of one person, Ross concluded. At first he'd
had no choice. He was tied to Blandón by circumstance. "If
Danilo had disappeared, we wouldn't have been getting no
ounces, no nothing, you know what I'm saying? When we

===== PDF PAGE 282 =====
got started, if we wouldn't have had him, we wouldn't have
been able to have found it nowhere else," Ross said. "Even
if you had the money, you just couldn't get it."
But now that he was riding on top, Ross had no shortage
of offers from other cocaine importers, major traffickers
who dreamed of finding a customer the size of Freeway
Rick.
Blandón once told an associate that the beauty of
dealing with "the black people" was that they sold cocaine
so rapidly there were no costs or security risks to be
incurred by warehousing the dope and parceling it out over
a week or two. They would take as much as you could sell
them and it was gone in a day, he crowed; "The black
people, you know, buy everything."
Ross said the other "players" who came around usually
couldn't match Blandón's prices. Couldn't even come close,
most of the time. "When everybody else in town was
spending forty-five [thousand] for a key, we was getting
them for thirty-eight. And we knew, with him, he like never
ran out."
Blandón confirmed that the prices he charged Ross were
lower than anything he charged his other customers; Ross
sold so much, he said, he could "get good prices from my
suppliers."
Still, price and supply were just part of the reason Ross
had confined his cocaine purchases to Blandón. With
someone else, who knew what kind of troubles you were
buying into? A new supplier could turn out to be a head
case, or a fly-by-night. A low price could simply be a
snitch's offer.
Danilo, on the other hand, was his friend, his protector.
Rick trusted him implicitly, and for good reason. Danilo had
guided him, advised him, kept him out of trouble. And he

===== PDF PAGE 283 =====
genuinely seemed to like Ross. "All I knew was like, back in
L.A., he would always tell me when they was going to raid
my houses. The police always thought I had somebody
working for the police," Ross said. "And he was always
giving me tips like, 'Man, don't go back over to that house
no more,' or 'Don't go to this house over here.'" The cops
invariably raided the locations within a couple days.
Ross, realizing that he owed much of his phenomenal
success to Danilo, felt almost superstitious about
tampering with a winning formula. "I can't say I never would
have found out about it, but before I met him, the chances of
me being a big dope dealer were slim to none." But when
Blandón wouldn't get his ass up off the couch, Ross
decided to look seriously for other sources, people who
would be there when Danilo didn't feel like making money.
He also used the opportunity to teach his teacher a little
lesson about complacency.
One of the offers Ross had gotten came from the
towering Torres brothers, known to Ross and his crew as
"the Greens." He'd met them through Blandón and
assumed from their size that they were his bodyguards.
They also delivered cocaine and picked up money for
Blandón occasionally. One day—as most of Blandón's
assistants eventually did—they slipped Ross their phone
number, in case he ever needed something extra.
If Danilo trusted the Greens enough to work for him, Ross
figured, that was a pretty good recommendation, and one
particularly busy day he called the brothers up and said he
was willing to talk some business. Their prices were about
the same as Blandón's, he said, but Ross didn't intend to
pay either supplier's price for very long. Once the Torres
brothers started selling to him, Ross used them to whipsaw
Blandón on his prices, pointing out that his "other suppliers"

===== PDF PAGE 284 =====
were offering him a much lower price than his good friend
Danilo. And he'd play the same game with the Torreses.
Blandón acknowledged that Ross began getting cocaine
from "another two suppliers. . .they were my friends. . .. He
got the coke from me, from Torres, from—see, not only
from me. I got a piece of the apple." And he confirmed that
Ross started driving his kilo prices down even further. But
the new relationship had a bit of a rocky start. Jacinto
Torres quickly got into trouble with the police.
He and his wife Margarita had quarreled, and he'd
moved out, renting a room at his friend Robert Joseph
Andreas's new four-bedroom house in Burbank. On April 6,
1984, shortly before 9:00 
P.M.
, a team of Burbank narcotics
detectives acting on an anonymous tip came crashing in
through the kitchen door. They found a number of
Nicaraguan women sitting around the kitchen table.
Jacinto Torres was stretched out on the bed in his room.
In his dresser the police found a half-ounce of cocaine, a
.38-caliber pistol, $3,700 in cash, and "large men's
clothing." He and Andreas were thrown into the back of a
prowl car and whisked off to jail. In Spanish, Torres and
Andreas cursed their predicament, unaware that the cruiser
was equipped with a secret taping system that was
recording their every word.
"Stupid," Torres spat. "My money, my ledger, my clients,
all the names. They are going to find a house I have got
rented and if they get there, the whores, I don't want to think
about it. Great God."
He turned to Andreas and said, "Rick is the one who
fingered us."
"No, I have known him for a long time."
"They came looking for him," Torres replied. "Don't say
nothing."

===== PDF PAGE 285 =====
"It's nothing," Andreas assured him. "It's just half an
ounce, almost nothing. They can't do nothing. I don't know if
they found the house. I don't believe they did."
Court records show the police later searched a house in
Northridge they thought belonged to Torres, an address
that shows up on Blandón's NADDIS report as being one of
his residences. But no drugs were found.
During the preliminary hearing, one of the arresting
officers was asked about the search he'd conducted of
Jacinto Torres's Mercedes Benz, and a very odd
conversation ensued.
"Did you find any contraband in the Mercedes?" Torres's
attorney, Joseph Vodnoy, asked Burbank police officer
James Bonar.
"No contraband," Bonar answered. "Just some property
of the United States Customs. No contraband."
"Wait a minute. . ." the judge said.
"I move to strike that answer!" Vodnoy shouted.
"Just a minute," the judge said. "What is it now you want
to strike?"
"I asked him did he find any contraband? The answer
was no. Then he went on to say something about United
States Customs," Vodnoy complained.
"Property belonging to U.S. Customs?" the judge asked
Bonar.
"It was not contraband. No no," Bonar replied.
"It will go out," the judge decided.
What U.S. Customs property the police found in Torres's
car is not known, as all the police files from that case were
destroyed. The charges against Torres were quickly
disposed of. Four months later he pleaded guilty to a lesser
charge of cocaine possession; he was fined $500 and
given no jail time.

===== PDF PAGE 286 =====
That outcome didn't please Jacinto Torres's probation
officer, who refered to him as "that big guy who always
comes in here in short pants." He told Torres's attorney,
"You know your client's guilty. All we want is for him to serve
some time. . .. This guy was a troublemaker as far back as
1970."
But even though Torres would violate his probation
several times, no action would ever be taken against him.
He went right back to cocaine trafficking.
Ross eventually turned Blandón and the Torres brothers
against each other, a situation that would have dire
consequences for Blandón in later years. The longtime
friends became bitter rivals, fighting each other for Ross's
business. One night, Ross said, he realized just how
heated the rivalry had become.
While Ross was twitting a drunken Blandón about how
low the brothers' cocaine prices had fallen, Blandón looked
at him blearily, announced that "Chepita was fucking one of
them," and said he wasn't going to take such an insult
sitting down. He had a little plan he wanted to discuss with
Ross to even things up.
"Danilo wanted to kill him," Ross said.
Blandón suggested that Ross set up a cocaine buy with
the adulterous brother and "'tell that motherfucker to bring it
at such-and-such a place, and I'm going to have some guys
there waiting and you keep the dope. I'm going to take care
of that fucking guy.'"
Ross said he laughed off the idea, figuring it was the
liquor talking.
But the Torres brothers confirmed the story and took it
one step further. In an interview with police, they "explained
that Danilo Blandón's wife told him she had an affair with
one of the [brothers] in a fit of anger. Blandón became

===== PDF PAGE 287 =====
enraged and hired a former military officer of the
Nicaraguan army to kill him." The brothers said Blandón
"apparently realized his wife had lied to him about the affair
and called off the hit man."
Blandón said he never knew just how much cocaine the
Torreses were selling to Ross, but he estimated that their
volume rose to a level comparable to his own. He saw them
"getting rich," he said. "If I sell a week to him, a hundred,
maybe they go buy 50 or something like that. If I didn't sell
him 100, they will sell him like, like 100 to him, you know? It
was all the competition."
The brothers admitted to the police that they were selling
"large amounts of cocaine to Ross on some occasions."
If Ricky Ross was going through 150 kilos of cocaine
every week—and Ross says the figure is a reasonable
average—it means he was selling enough to put a
staggering 3,000,000 doses of crack on L.A.'s streets
every seven days. It also means Blandón and the Torres
brothers were sometimes sharing about $5.7 million a
week in cash from the prolific young dealer. "Sometimes,
we'd spend $4 million or $5 million a week with that guy, in
our hell days," Ross said, speaking of Blandón.
Blandón said Ross was using an apartment in South
Central as a countinghouse, where the money from the drug
sales was brought, sorted, and wrapped. He would pick up
his payments there. "When he [Danilo] came over we'd be
counting the money and he said, 'Man, I'm gonna have to
get you a money machine.' Because you know, our problem
had got to be counting the money. You know, I started
telling him, 'Man, my fingers hurt!' We got to the point where
it was like, 'Man, we don't want to count no more money.'"
Blandón agreed that Ross was being deluged with cash.
"Those times, they were using two or three machines,

===== PDF PAGE 288 =====
counting machines, and they were counting day and night."
To hide it all, Ross followed Blandón's advice and started
investing in real estate, buying houses, apartment
buildings, an auto parts store, and a hotel near the Harbor
Freeway called the Freeway Motor Inn. In addition to giving
Ricky Ross his nickname, "Freeway Rick," the motel
served as a secure meeting place for dealers and couriers.
There was so much cash and so much crack flying
around South Central that even the mainstream media had
started to notice. On November 25, 1984, one day before
the DEA arrested Jairo Meneses and Renato Pena
Cabrera in San Francisco, the first story about crack to
appear in the national press was published by the 
Los
Angeles Times
. It was written by Andy Furillo, a freckle-
faced police beat reporter who'd been hired away from the
smaller 
Los Angeles Herald-Examiner
.
When he talked to some of the officers at the South
Central stations, Furillo said, several of them mentioned
this flood of cocaine they were seeing in the ghettos. He hit
the streets, knocked on some doors, and confirmed what
the officers told him—and then some. There was, he
discovered, a gigantic, wide-open cocaine market
flourishing in the poorest section of Los Angeles—and no
one except the neighborhood newspapers had written a
single word about it. It was a hell of a story, he thought.
Headlined "South Central Cocaine Sales Explode into
$25 Rocks," Furillo's scoop began: "Police say hundreds,
perhaps thousands, of young men, most of them gang
members, are getting rich off the cocaine trafficking that
has swept through L.A.'s black community in the past 18
months." Furillo described the rock house phenomenon
and the multitude of street-corner dealers. He quoted police
as saying that there were several hundred rock houses in

===== PDF PAGE 289 =====
South Central at that time. And his story accurately
predicted that crack was a threat that could "destroy South
Central Los Angeles for years to come."
Naturally, the 
Times
 buried the story inside the paper.
But it was enough to prompt an embarrassed LAPD to
launch raids on several dozen rock houses shortly
afterward, with tragic results. On December 13, a
diversionary explosion the cops set off during a raid on a
West Sixtieth Street rock house killed a woman who
happened to be walking by at the wrong time.
The crack phenomenon, Furillo said, fascinated him, and
he pressed to do more stories on it, but his editors at the
Times
 showed little interest in having him pursue the topic.
Furillo eventually quit the paper in disgust and returned to
the 
Herald-Examiner
, where he continued producing gritty,
ground-breaking stories on crack's impact on L.A.'s
innercity residents.
Furillo's piece in the 
Times
 also caught the eye of the
Washington Post's
 L.A. bureau chief, Jay Matthews, who
did a follow-up in December 1984. That story described
rock cocaine as "a marketing breakthrough that furnishes
this middle-class drug to the city's poorest neighborhoods"
and said rock houses—described as "steel-door
dispensaries"—were "growing like a new fast-food chain."
But as rapidly as the drug was spreading, the 
Post
reported, it was still only an L.A. fad, and the story quoted
unnamed "narcotics experts" as saying that "the hard little
pellets of cocaine powder, selling for as little as $25, have
not been found in significant numbers outside Los
Angeles."
Bobby Sheppard, intelligence unit supervisor for the U.S.
Drug Enforcement Administration in L.A., told the
newspaper that he "saw no sign of rock cocaine spreading

===== PDF PAGE 290 =====
to the rest of the country, 'but I've got to believe that if it isn't
there yet, it probably will be in the future.'" The story ended
somewhat strangely by comparing crack to the clove
cigarette fad of middle-class white teenagers.
It would be another year before other East Coast papers
would begin reporting on crack; this timing coincided with
the drug's belated arrival in New York City. "Crack first
came to the attention of the New York Field Office Division
of the Drug Enforcement Administration in the fall of 1985.
The New York Joint Drug Enforcement Task Force made
the first significant seizure of crack on October 25, 1985,"
said Robert Stutman, the head of the DEA's New York
office, in 1986 congressional testimony. "A form of cocaine
similar to crack but known as 'rock' has been available in
Los Angeles for the last five years." According to then
NYPD commissioner Benjamin Ward, "In January of 1985,
of all cocaine arrests made by the Narcotics Division, there
were fewer than fifteen arrests for crack."
Furillo's story also prompted the first scientific look at the
early L.A. crack market, done by USC sociologists
Malcolm Klein and Cheryl Maxson in early 1985. Their
preliminary findings, published in a small social research
journal, noted that "throughout the Black residential areas of
Los Angeles County, there has been a recent, dramatic
increase in cocaine dealing. . .in large part from the
proliferation of cocaine 'rocks' and fortified 'rock houses'
which, with certain refinements, constitute a new technology
and organization for cocaine distribution. An increasing
trend in the distribution system is the use of street gang
members in various dealing roles."
The study said that "estimates on the number of [rock
houses] in South Los Angeles, a Black area where the
phenomenon is concentrated, range from one to two

===== PDF PAGE 291 =====
hundred at a time to as many as a thousand."
Some rock houses were even being franchised, they
found, and said "gang involvement is a connected part of a
very rapid process by which this system has been
institutionalized." The distribution system "yields ready
access to inexpensive cocaine in a very large Black
community in Los Angeles."
One thing they were unable to explain was why crack was
found only in L.A.'s black neighborhoods. The drug, the
sociologists wrote, "at least currently seems to be ethnically
specific. Cocaine is found widely in the Black community in
Los Angeles, but is almost totally absent from the Hispanic
areas."
The explanation for that seems obvious once the Danilo
Blandón-Rick Ross partnership is factored into the
equation. "There was no market until we created it," Ross
said matter-of-factly. "We started in our neighborhood and
we stayed in our neighborhood. We almost never went
outside it. If people wanted dope, they came to us."
The USC sociologists' predictions for the future were
frightening and, as history has shown, dead-on accurate.
"The distribution system seems custom-made for other
Black gang centers (Philadelphia, New York, Washington,
Chicago, etc.)," they wrote. "There is absolutely nothing
inherent in this distribution technology, nor in the Los
Angeles context of its development, that would prevent its
exportation to many other urban areas. Indeed, exportability
seems very high. . .. All this makes for an intelligent, well-
organized system that is maximally effective—in short, it
works efficiently, is very impressive and could easily
explode across the nation."
And that is essentially what happened.
While the 
Washington Post
 story made no mention of the

===== PDF PAGE 292 =====
L.A. street gangs, Andy Furillo's story tagged them as the
prime beneficiaries of the new crack trade. He presciently
predicted that crack would dramatically alter the power
structure on the city's streets, by providing the gangs with
the one thing they had previously lacked: money. "Tom
Garrison, director of field operations for the Community
Youth Gang Services Project, said the utilization of the
gang structure by drug dealers represents 'a whole new
challenge for us,'" Furillo wrote. "'They've always had the
numbers and the firepower, but now they've got the
economic power too.'"
Klein and Maxson later came to believe that the police
were exaggerating the role of gang involvement in the crack
trade, but two later studies by the California Department of
Justice refuted that idea and said the gangs were an even
bigger force behind its spread from L.A. than previously
thought. "We think that law enforcement perceptions of
gang involvement in the drug trade are sharper than the
Klein and Maxson statistical study suggest," UC-Berkeley
sociologist Jerome Skolnick wrote in 1988. "In fact, it
appears difficult to overstate the penetration of Blood and
Crip members into other states."
The U.S. General Accounting Office (GAO), in a 1989
report, echoed Skolnick's conclusions: "In the early 1980s
the gangs began selling crack cocaine. Within a matter of
years, the lucrative crack market changed the black gangs
from traditional neighborhood street gangs to extremely
violent criminal groups operating from coast to coast. The
lure of profits coupled with increased pressure from local
police have prompted the Los Angeles gangs to extend
their territories far beyond their neighborhoods. Within the
past three to four years, members of the Crips and the
Bloods have been identified selling or distributing crack in

===== PDF PAGE 293 =====
Washington, Oregon, Kansas, Oklahoma, Colorado,
Missouri, North Carolina, Arizona, Virginia, Maryland and
elsewhere."
The GAO report noted that a Washington, D.C., crack
ring in 1989 was distributing 440 pounds of cocaine there
every week, which "illustrates the nationwide impact of the
Los Angeles street gangs. Much of the cocaine distributed
by the gang was allegedly purchased from the Crips and
the Bloods, who had purchased their cocaine from the
Colombians."
The report included a map of the United States showing
ominous black arrows emanating from L.A. and streaking
northward and eastward across the country. The map was
pockmarked with black dots—all the cities where crack had
been found. Miami for some reason wasn't among them,
although by 1985 the Jamaican posses from Liberty City
had reportedly started their trek westward. They also began
bringing crack to some African-American neighborhoods,
but their primary markets were in areas populated by
Caribbean immigrants. One drug researcher, Nick Kozel of
the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA), went to Miami
specifically looking for crack after reading Furillo's article
and, according to one account, "came up empty-handed."
Ross said that while he did not sell exclusively to Crips
gang members, they initially formed a large part of his
customer base simply because he and Ollie were from a
Crip neighborhood. But that only mattered in the beginning,
he said. By 1984 and 1985, they were so far removed from
that level of dealing that gang colors or the 'hoods their
buyers hailed from were trivialities.
Freeway Rick was the dealers' dealer. What his
customers did with their cocaine, who they sold it to, and
what they fought about afterward made no difference to

===== PDF PAGE 294 =====
him. One customer was just as good as another, as long as
they paid. All that other stuff just got in the way of making
money. "By the time the market exploded in 1984, Ross
already was dealing directly with the Colombian cartels,
who supplied him with 50 to 100 kilos a day," the 
Los
Angeles Times
 stated in 1994. "With that, Ross was able
to operate dozens of rock houses, catering to thousands of
addicts across Los Angeles. He had another three 'ounce
houses,' servicing 100 to 200 mid-level dealers. Finally, he
had his own private list of V.I.P. customers, maybe 30 to 50
big-time dealers, who dropped tens of thousands of dollars
at a time."
As the South Central crack market became saturated,
Ross's gang customers started traveling to other cities in
California to make their fortunes, setting up new crack
markets and using their connections with Ross to supply
them. It was the start of an unprecedented cross-country
migration by the Crips, and later the Bloods, which would
spread crack from South Central to other black
neighborhoods across the United States.
And it was the start of Ross's expansion from a large
regional drug trafficking network to what the 
L.A. Times
would later call "a coast-to-coast conglomerate that sold
more than 500,000 nuggets of the drug every day." One
L.A. narcotics detective would describe it as "a cartel."
South Central—ground zero of the crack explosion—
would never be the same again.
Like night follows day, crack brought a host of attendant
plagues: a flood of automatic weapons, rock houses,
motorized police battering rams, drive-by shootings, and
pitched gun battles. At the same time, the Reagan
administration began snipping away at the fragile social
support services that had made life in the inner cities

===== PDF PAGE 295 =====
livable, if not luxurious.
A commission examining the causes of the 1992 riots in
South Central named crack as one of the contributing
factors. The drug was the beginning of the end for many
struggling inner-city neighborhoods in the 1980s. They
changed from places where generations had raised
families in relative safety to free-fire zones where children
could be mown down as easily as if they were walking the
streets of Beirut.
"With rocks hitting the streets hard, and the money that
was generated. . .about '84 or '85, guns hit the streets hard.
Around '86, '87, it was on. You name it, you could get it,"
Leibo, an East Side Crip, told authors Yusuf Jah and Sister
Shah'Keyah. "You didn't hear that much about 9-
millimeters, M-16's, M-14's and AKs unless you were
hooked up and was high on the echelon, but after 1986 they
were available to anybody."
Here again, Danilo Blandón was a trendsetter.
Blandón began selling high-powered weapons to Ross
and his friends in 1984, courtesy of his spooky associate,
Ronald J. Lister, the ex-cop. "We started handling more
and more money and then the first gun that I ever had,
Danilo gave it to me for free," Ross said. "He just came by
the house and said, 'I've got a present for you.' It was a .22
pistol. I think it was a 15-shot, with a silencer on it. . .. He
started selling us guns after that. Everybody that worked
with me
—everybody—
bought a gun from him."
Blandón had access to every imaginable firearm, he
said. "I mean, he sold what is called a Streetsweeper, the
Thompsons, he sold those. I think he sold those for like
$3,000 apiece. It's a fully automatic that you see like in the
movies, you know, in the old gangster movies," Ross said.
"He sold Uzi's, he sold pistols, brand new pistols, .38, .357,

===== PDF PAGE 296 =====
any kind of pistol that you wanted. . .any kind of gun that you
wanted, he got it for you."
Ross, who bought a silver-plated Uzi submachine gun,
said his partner, Ollie Newell, became one of Blandón's
biggest arms customers and soon had enough firepower to
equip a platoon. One of his prize possessions was a
tripod-mounted .50-caliber machine gun, which can down
small planes.
"Like, I started buying houses, right? Well, Ollie started
buying guns. He'd buy anything Danilo would walk through
the door with. We had our own little arsenal. One time, he
tells me Danilo was gonna get him a grenade launcher. I
said, 'Man, what the fuck do we need with a grenade
launcher?'"
He and his fellow dealers, Ross said, bought more than a
hundred guns from Blandón. He sold so many to other
dealers and friends that, by 1987, the L.A. police would list
"weapons sales" as among Ross's various enterprises.
Blandón denies selling Ross that many weapons, but he
did admit selling him a .22 pistol, an Uzi machine pistol,
and an Armalite AR-15 assault rifle, the civilian version of
the military's M-16. The AR-15 was a weapon the Contras
bought by the thousands. Blandón owned one himself.
Blandón described his weapons sales as nothing more
than a convenience for Ross and insisted he was no arms
dealer: "I don't sell guns, okay? I sold that gun because he
ordered [them from] me—because I knew the people who
sell the guns." He said he never used weapons in his
business and tried to pass that practice along to Ross.
So how was it that Danilo Blandón, a drug dealer, knew
arms merchants?
"Because I was in the Contra revolution," he replied.
The guns sold to the crack dealers, Blandón explained,

===== PDF PAGE 297 =====
came from Ron Lister and his associate William Lee
Downing, through their "security business" in high-class
Laguna Beach. Lister admitted to the CIA that he began
acquiring weapons for Blandón between 1982 and 1983,
"some of which Blandón claimed were going to 'my friends
down South.'" Lister said he sold Blandón one or two guns
a week: "Assorted handguns, semiautomatic Uzi machine
pistols, KG99 Tec Nine machine pistols, and possibly
semi-automatic AK47's." He also admitted "purchasing a
small number of commercially available, off-the-shelf night
vision devices for Blandón. Lister says he does not know
what Blandón did with the devices."
Blandón told CIA inspectors that Lister had access to
such a wide variety of weapons that, in 1983 or 1984, he
arranged for him to give a sales presentation to the
leadership of the Contras. "Blandón recalls that, in addition
to the usual attendees, several top Contra leaders were
also in attendance, including Eden Pastora, Adolfo
Chamorro and Mariano Montealgre. Blandón also says Ivan
Torres was present," the CIA report stated. Mariano
Montealgre, a CIA-trained Contra pilot, was implicated in a
scheme to haul drugs for the Contras but never charged.
Ivan Torres was a drug-dealing subordinate of Blandón,
identified in DEA records as having "political connections
to the FDN."
"Blandón said the attendees showed no interest in
Lister's offer and Blandón received the impression that the
military arms of the Contras was already being supplied by
CIA or another U.S. government agency," the CIA reported.
During a 1996 court case, Blandón was asked if he went
to Lister's security company and bought weapons "off the
rack."
"No, he brought them to me."

===== PDF PAGE 298 =====
"Brought them to you?"
"Uh huh."
"Where?"
"To my house."
"What did you do—call him up and order some?"
"No sir. He'd shown me that, and he told me that. And I
offered them like a salesman, you know? He [Ross]
ordered and I sold it."
"So you were doing another one of your brokerage
things?"
"Yes."
"Sir, this business that you were in is not like selling
paper to offices, is it?"
"Excuse me," Blandón huffed. "In those times you can
buy a gun from the gun shop and you can sell it to anybody,
okay?"
"But you sold Uzis!"
"Those guns," Blandón said calmly, "they weren't stolen."
The "security business" that provided Blandón the
weapons was Mundy Security Group Inc., which Lister
incorporated in Laguna Beach in mid-1983. Lister, an
attorney named Maurice Green, another attorney named
Gary Shapiro, and his reserve police officer buddy,
Christopher W. Moore, were named as directors and
officers. A business card found in a drug raid three years
later identified Blandón as a vice president of that
company.
Moore said the goings-on at Mundy Security Group's
offices were enough to scare anyone. Director Maurice
Green, he said, was a self-proclaimed legal genius with a
severe drug and alcohol problem. He had a special wall
constructed behind his desk that was hollow, Moore said,
so he could kick through the paneling and run out of the

===== PDF PAGE 299 =====
building in case he needed to beat a hasty retreat. "I
walked by his office one day and he was sitting at his desk
looking down the barrel of a gun," Moore recalled. "I went
into Ron's office and said, 'Hey Ron, you know Maurice is
sitting in there playing with a gun?' He just laughed about
it." Once, director Gary Shapiro said, the office was
besieged by a mob of angry doctors who "were screaming
and yelling about how Maurice had screwed up with their
money." Lister was so wary of Green that he secretly
videotaped him, Shapiro said.
Green was prosecuted and disbarred in 1987 for forging
prescriptions to obtain narcotics. In 1992 he was
sentenced to two years in prison for grand theft and
practicing law without a license.
Aside from a few burglar alarm installations, Moore said,
the only other business that he knew Mundy Security Group
was involved in was an attempt to market a laser sighting
device for AR-15 assault rifles. Lister's partner, Bill
Downing, was designing that gizmo, which used a tiny laser
beam to put a small red dot on the target—perfect for killing
people at night.
According to a 1996 report from the U.S. Customs
Service, Mundy Security Group was licensed with the U.S.
State Department in 1983 to export U.S. Munitions List
items to other countries. "This firm received three DSP-73s
[temporary export licenses] to export laser components and
spare parts to 'various countries,'" the Customs report
stated. "Unfortunately, the data base here at the
Department of State does not contain abundant information
on registrations/licenses that old, so I am unable to provide.
. .more specifics on the types of equipment and countries
exported to."
Blandón also did a brisk business selling electronics

===== PDF PAGE 300 =====
equipment to other cocaine dealers, he said. He sold
walkie-talkies to Ross and his crew, who used them to
keep in touch during cocaine and money pickups. He sold
pagers, police scanners, voice scramblers, cellular phones,
and anti-eavesdropping equipment to the dopers. "I could
sell to all the people that was in the coke business," he
said. Again, Ronald Lister procured that equipment for him.
Blandón said Ross "used to live in an apartment beside the
freeway, you see, in San Pedro, San Pedro Freeway in
L.A. It was an apartment by Florence, if I remember, by the
freeway. So I get him [Ross] a scanner, telephone security,
you know, when you put the thing in the telephone and you
can get on another phone and talk to him and nobody will
listen."
Ross said his crew carried the police scanners in their
cars while out on drug deliveries, eavesdropping on the
conversations between the patrol cars in the neighborhood.
They also used one in the counting house when there were
large sums of money on hand. During one 1987 raid, some
of their equipment fell into the hands of the L.A. County
Sheriff's Office, and the cops were suitably impressed.
"They've got electronic police-detection systems,
sophisticated weapons—better equipment than we have,"
Sergeant Robert Sobel complained to a reporter.
Sobel and his team had raided Ross's "Big Palace of
Wheels"—a well-stocked but curiously customer-free auto
parts store that was one of his many front corporations—
and they also hit an apartment belonging to one of Ross's
dealers. At the store, Sobel said, "We found hand-held,
programmable 800 megahertz radios which are better than
our radios, which they use in their counter-surveillance
thing, when they communicated with one another when they
transported cocaine."

===== PDF PAGE 301 =====
The apartment coughed up "several sophisticated
firearms, including an Israeli .357 automatic pistol with a
laser-type sighting device, which facilitates its use during
darkness," according to the affidavit of one of Sobel's
partners. The search also found Teflon-coated bullets,
commonly known as "cop killers" because they can easily
pierce an officer's bulletproof vest.
In an L.A. Police Department summary of searches at
locations associated with Ross, Deputy Chief Glenn Levant
wrote that "numerous 9-mm Uzies [sic] were seized, along
with an AK-47 assault rifle, a fully automatic Mac-11
machine gun, a fully automatic machine gun complete with
silencer, and state-of-the-art handguns, rifles and
shotguns."
Eventually Ronald Lister's skills in procuring such high-
tech marvels brought him to the attention of the FBI. On
April 3, 1985, two FBI agents, Richard Smith and David
Cook, came knocking on the door of Lister's well-tended
home in Mission Viejo. They had a grand jury subpeona to
deliver and a statement to take. They "hammered on who I
might know in East block countries. See's a spy situation,"
Lister wrote after they left.
He confirmed to police in 1996 that he had been the
subject of a "grand jury investigation on my relationship with
Soviet agents. Crazy, huh?" Lister "went on to say that he
had sold an FBI 'scrambler system' to somebody overseas
and the FBI had investigated only to find out that the
equipment was declassified and available on the open
market."
But FBI agent Smith, now retired, remembered things a
little differently. He told the police that "he had received
information that Lister was attempting to sell classified
electronic equipment to Soviet KGB agents. They

===== PDF PAGE 302 =====
conducted an investigation, which included a sting
operation in which FBI agents posed as KGB agents. [He]
said Lister was attempting activities which were completely
illegal and clearly in violation of United States national
security."
Lister's former chief, Neil Purcell, confirmed that the FBI
had Lister under investigation but recalled that the gear
involved high-tech camera equipment. "They came down to
see me. They were absolutely convinced he was selling this
stuff to the Russians and tried to get background on the guy
and after I listened to them, I said, 'Pardon me for laughing,
but he's taking you guys for a ride, believe me.' And they
said, 'We've got photographs!' and [they] showed me
photographs of him meeting in San Francisco and New
York with the Russians and at the Embassy in Washington
—on and on."
Purcell said the FBI discovered that Lister was
"bullshitting the Russians, charging them four and five times
what he paid for it. The kind of thing that's really laughable
about this is the Russians think they've really got something
and they could have gone to the camera store themselves
and bought it."
Former agent Smith claimed that Lister was never
prosecuted because he turned out to be "full of hot air" and
was "determined to be incapable of producing the
equipment which he was attempting to sell to the KGB.
Lister's lack of 'present capability' to commit the crime
made prosecution impractical." But Smith acknowledged
that "the Assistant U.S. Attorney who handled the case felt,
however, that Lister's activities were serious enough to
warrant a grand jury hearing."
Lister admitted to L.A. police that he had been called
before the grand jury and questioned about his activities.

===== PDF PAGE 303 =====
When the police asked him about the nature of the
equipment involved, he said, "I can't get into that stuff with
you guys." Lister was never indicted and told police he was
unclear as to the outcome of the grand jury investigation.
"That's all classified, incidentally," Lister told them. When
the detectives asked him why the information would be
classified, Lister said, "I can't answer that for you."
If the L.A. detectives were as skeptical of Lister's cloak-
and-dagger work as ex-FBI agent Smith and former chief
Purcell seemed to be, they must have gotten quite a jolt
when they called the FBI to ask for a copy of their old files
on the Lister investigation. "Special Agent Tim Bezick. .
.stated that the FBI reports and the transcripts of Lister's
grand jury testimony were protected by the National
Security Act," Detective Axel Anderson wrote on November
20, 1996. "At Bezick's suggestion I called Joel Levin, chief
of the Criminal Division of the San Francisco office of the
United States Attorney. Mr. Levin researched the issue and
confirmed the necessity of a court order."
They got similar reactions when they checked on Lister's
background with the Maywood Police Department and the
Laguna Beach Police Department, his old employers. "The
personnel jacket for Ronald J. Lister has been sealed by
the City of Maywood," they reported in November 1996. In
Laguna Beach they learned that "the actual personnel files
related to Ronald Lister no longer existed. . .all the
information and documents in the Lister file had been
purged, with the exception of the original employment
application."
The FBI never turned over the documents, and the L.A.
detectives were unable to determine why the files of a
decade-old investigation of a dope dealing arms merchant
with an allegedly overactive imagination would still be a

===== PDF PAGE 304 =====
matter of national security.
A significant clue, however, can be found in some
documents seized during a 1986 narcotics raid on Lister's
house. One of the many curious items the police carted
away that day was a ten-page, handwritten document that
details weapons and equipment deals by Lister. Lister
admitted to the police that he had written the document in
preparation for his 1985 grand jury appearance. The notes
chronicled a series of meetings with a customer named
"Ivan" at the Fairmont Hotel in San Jose, California. Ivan
was uninterested in Lister's scramblers, the notes said, but
asked Lister to procure some "Varo night vision
equipment." The notes also told of Lister visiting the
Russian embassy in Washington, D.C.
After jotting down a description of the April 1985 visit
from FBI agents Smith and Cook, Lister wrote down a list
of seven names. "Lister said he gave the above names to
the FBI agents Rich Smith and Dave Cook," the police
detectives wrote in their 1996 report. "He said the names
'came up in his business' for some reason and he wanted
to have the names in writing when he went before the grand
jury. . .. Lister said the people listed were only 'business
people.'" The last two names on the list were Roberto
D'Aubuisson, the right-wing Salvadoran death squad
leader whom the CIA later acknowledged to be a drug and
weapons trafficker, and Ray Prendes, the former head of
the Salvadoran Christian Democratic party, which received
substantial CIA financial assistance during the 1980s.
The detectives didn't ask why Lister would be having
business dealings with CIA-linked Salvadoran politicians,
or what the nature of that business was.
But the most intriguing name on Lister's list was at the
very top of it: Bill Nelson. "Lister said that Bill Nelson was

===== PDF PAGE 305 =====
an A.S.I.S. member, which he said stands for the American
Society of Industrial Security. Lister said that Nelson was
the security director for the Fleur [sic] Corporation," the
detectives' report said.
William Earl Nelson was far more than that, but Lister
didn't elaborate, and the detectives didn't push him. Had
they done so, they might have gotten a better idea about
why the FBI's files on Lister would still be classified eleven
years later.
Before becoming Fluor Corporation's vice president for
security and administration, Bill Nelson had been the CIA's
deputy director of operations—the head spook—the man in
charge of all CIA covert operations around the world from
1973 to 1976. A Fluor spokeswoman initially denied to
journalist Nick Schou that Nelson had been affiliated with
Fluor until Schou confronted her with documentary evidence
of his employment there. Only then did she admit it, saying
Nelson had worked at Fluor from 1977 to 1985.
A former CIA officer, John Vandewerker, confirmed to
Schou that Nelson and Lister knew each other. Apparently,
when Lister was running out to Fluor's headquarters in
1982 and 1983, it was Bill Nelson with whom he was
meeting—"Ron's big CIA contact," as Lister's former office
director, Chris Moore, described him.
They didn't get much bigger than Nelson, a protege of
former CIA director William Colby. A native of New York,
Nelson had been a CIA officer since 1948, serving under a
variety of military and State Department covers, mostly in
the Far East. Japanese newspapers exposed him as CIA
after they learned he was asking travelers to the Soviet
Union to literally dig up dirt around Russian missile bases.
As head of covert operations, Nelson oversaw the CIA's
controversial destabilization program in Chile, which

===== PDF PAGE 306 =====
resulted in the overthrow and murder of Chile's elected
president, socialist Salvador Allende. Later, Nelson
commanded 'Operation Feature,' a covert plan to place a
"friendly" group in power in Angola after the former African
colony was granted independence from Portugal in 1975.
He was named as a defendant in a civil suit filed by the
widow of an American mercenary the CIA recruited to fight
in Angola in 1976. The widow claimed the CIA misled her
husband about the hopelessness of his mission and then
engaged in a smear campaign to distance itself from him
when he turned up dead. The suit was eventually
dismissed.
Nelson's Operation Feature bore many similarities to the
Contra project, particularly in terms of how the CIA's proxy
army received its weapons. That could explain why Lister—
who has admitted dealing arms in Latin America—was
meeting with Nelson. In both operations, arms and
equipment for the CIA's secret armies were laundered
through the armies of neighboring countries friendly to the
United States in order to disguise their origins and
preserve deniability for the CIA. In the Angolan conflict, the
countries of Zaire and South Africa were used. Guatemala,
Honduras, and El Salvador fronted arms shipments for the
Contras. In both cases the CIA turned to the People's
Republic of China to supply additional weaponry and
missiles to its chosen fighters.
Evidence of Lister's involvement in sophisticated
international arms transactions was found in the notes
Lister made, naming Nelson and the Salvadoran
politicians. Lister had drawn a flow chart containing boxes
labeled "Swiss Bank," "U.S. State Department," "H.K.," "X
Country," and "Factory USA." Strange acronyms and
abbreviations were jotted alongside each box.

===== PDF PAGE 307 =====
When the L.A. County Sheriff's Office sent Lister's flow
chart to the U.S. Customs Service for analysis in 1996,
Customs said it appeared to diagram a scheme to illegally
divert American-made weapons to a third party, using
fraudulent end-user certifications (EUCs) from another
country to conceal the true identity of the weapons'
recipients. EUCs are sworn declarations in which the
government buying the weapons certifies that it really did
order them. It is supposed to provide the U.S. government
with some assurance that American-made weapons aren't
ending up in the hands of terrorists or Communist
guerrillas. When Oliver North began supplying arms for the
Contras after the CIA funding cutoff, he frequently used
phony EUCs from the Guatemalan and Honduran
governments to divert weapons to the Contras, records
show.
"The Contras can't buy weapons on the international
arms market. Only countries can buy weapons, and certain
countries can't buy weapons if they're embargoed or if
they're embroiled in a political confrontation," explained
former CIA official Alan Fiers, who ran the Contra program
for several years. "So what happens is an arms broker will
get an intermediary country to issue false end-user
certificates. There is generally some consideration involved
and the end-user certificate is issued, but the arms are
either not shipped to the country that issued the certificate
or are trans-shipped through that country on to a disguised
end user, in this case, the Contras."
That was precisely what the flow chart seized from
Lister's house illustrated, according to the U.S. Customs
Service arms expert who analyzed the document. "Were
this transaction taking place today," Senior Special Agent
James P. McShane wrote, "I would assume that there was

===== PDF PAGE 308 =====
to be a [weapons] diversion to either Iran or the People's
Republic of China, neither of which can get licenses for
exported munitions."
Just what the CIA's former boss of covert operations,
who by most accounts was an upright individual, could
possibly have had to discuss with an admitted cocaine
trafficker, drug addict, and gun runner like Ronald Lister is
hard to fathom, and the exact nature of their relationship is
likely never to be known. In April 1995, wracked with
pneumonia, Nelson died of respiratory failure in an Orange
County convalescent hospital at the age of seventy-four. But
it is conceivable that their connection had something to do
with the Contras and weapons. At the same time that he
was reportedly meeting with Nelson, Lister was also
advising the Contras on security matters and peddling
arms.
Other documents seized from Lister in the 1986 raid lend
support to this idea. According to the Justice Department,
Lister's monthly calendars for 1985 contained "frequent
references to the Contras," notations reading "SF
Contras," "LA Contras," "D-Contra" and at least one
reference to the Defense Intelligence Agency, which was
known to be involved in supplying military hardware to the
Nicaraguan rebels. Agents seized two long lists of
weapons with the names of pastries next to them, which
Lister explained were code sheets he and Blandón used
when they "discussed weaponry over the phone." They also
found a handwritten note bearing the names of several CIA
operatives working with Eden Pastora's ARDE Contra
group in Costa Rica.
"The documents seized from Lister in 1986 largely
corroborate his account of his relationship with Blandón
and the Contras," the Justice Department concluded in

===== PDF PAGE 309 =====
1997.

===== PDF PAGE 310 =====
11

===== PDF PAGE 311 =====
"They were looking in the other
direction"
N
orwin Meneses was in a suspicious mood. He sat stiffly
on a wooden bench and parried with two journalists who
had come to question him about his relationship with the
Contras some fifteen years earlier.
It was January 1996. Meneses had been locked up in the
primitive Tipitapa prison outside Managua for five years,
but he had none of the flourescent-tube pallor that men in
American prisons have after such long periods of
confinement. The drug lord was tanned, comfortably
dressed; he had adapted well to his surroundings.
Or, perhaps more accurately, the old 
Guardia
 prison—
where FDN founder Ricardo Lau once held court as
warden and chief torturer—had adapted itself to him.
Meneses strolled freely through the grounds, and the
guards looked respectfully at their shoes and murmured
"
Senor
" when Meneses and his entourage passed by. His
cell door was closed only when he wanted it that way.
His sandals slapping loudly through the high-ceilinged
halls, he had led the reporters to a breezy and secluded
corridor that looked out on the prison's bright courtyard. A
young dark-skinned inmate who seemed to take directions
from Meneses stood by a tree outside, observing intently.
Just getting this far had been a chore for Meneses's
visitors, a process as protocol-driven as arranging an
audience with a potentate. They had been run through a
screening process of Meneses's own devising, one that
had nothing to do with the Nicaraguan penal system or its
security concerns. The prison warden admitted that he had
no say. He simply signed the passes and opened the gates

===== PDF PAGE 312 =====
when Meneses told him to.
First, Norwin's wives, Maritza and Blanca Margarita, had
to approve. Then their attorneys needed to be personally
satisfied. Then Norwin's attorneys—all three of them—had
to sign off. And he wanted letters from them proving it.
The DEA and the CIA also got involved. "I'll he right up
front with you," said DEA public affairs chief James
McGivncy, after reviewing Meneses's intelligence files in
Washington, D.C. "I've already talked to the CIA people,
because obviously there's some implications in some of
the things I've seen that he may have been or at least he
represented himself to be, and frankly, the CIA says, 'Hey,
you know, that's fine. If he wants to talk to the reporter, he
can tell them whatever he wants.' Their thinking on it was:
'We've been through this before' and they didn't think they
had anything to hide on it."
Nor did the DEA, McGivney assured the reporter, though
no one had suggested otherwise about either agency. The
DEA was even willing to set up the interview, McGivney
said. "I think I could probably represent to you that we might
be able to facilitate any meeting you have with Meneses, in
arranging it," he said carefully. "I can represent that I can go
out and try to facilitate [an interview with] Meneses. And
what he ends up saying, who knows? I'm willing to let the
chips fall where they may. That's the kind of confidence I've
got that. . .that the DEA back in the 1980s had no problems
in those areas."
But the DEA's help came with a price, "a quid pro quo,"
as McGivney put it. In exchange, the DEA wanted the
reporters to leave something out of their story: Danilo
Blandón's relationship with the DEA. The reporters
arranged the interview themselves.
Even after they jumped through all of his hoops, though,

===== PDF PAGE 313 =====
Meneses gave nothing away for free. Every suggestion of
criminal conduct was protested as a calamitous slur by a
foolish detective or Communist. But when he was
confronted by hard evidence—such as a photograph or his
own words—he would shrug, smile, and admit it.
As the minutes stretched into hours, Meneses became
relaxed and expansive but never let his guard down. Every
so often, he would tell an obvious lie, just to see if his
audience was paying attention. He denied having any
connection to the Contras, a falsehood he immediately
retracted when confronted with a photograph of himself
standing with FDN commander Adolfo Calero. Or he would
casually drop a bomb-shell—like mentioning Ronald
Lister's name unbidden—to see how it resonated, doing
his own soundings to test which paths the journalists had
taken before arriving in his presence.
He laughed heartily only once during the afternoon, when
he was reading an interview U.S. authorities had done with
his old associates, Jacinto and Edgar Torres, who later
became informants for a variety of police agencies. In May
of 1992 the FBI, the DEA, the IRS, and the LAPD sat the
Trees down in the U.S. attorney's office in Los Angeles and
grilled them about Meneses and Danilo Blandón. Meneses
was asked to read the Torres's statement and point out
areas where he disagreed. He rested a forefinger on his
lips, and his eyes darted across the four-page FBI report.
He nodded occasionally, pursed his lips angrily once, and
then let out what could best be described as a guffaw.
Holding the document open to the second page, he
pointed to the second paragraph: "Torres estimated that
between 1980 and 1991 Blandón moved over 5,000
kilograms of cocaine."
"It would be more accurate if you multiplied that by ten,"

===== PDF PAGE 314 =====
Blandón's longtime supplier smiled.
Fifty thousand kilos? Fifty-five tons of cocaine?
"Easily," he said. And not without a little pride.
Meneses's figures are impossible to verify, but as he
was Blandón's supplier for many years, no one is in a better
position to know. The DEA estimated Blandón imported
between 18,000 and 27,000 kilos between 1982 and 1990,
amassing millions of dollars, and the Torres brothers later
boosted their own estimates dramatically. According to a
1996 L.A. County Sheriff's Office report, the brothers told
police "they heard that Blandón sold 10,000 kilos of
cocaine, mostly in South Central Los Angeles and the San
Francisco Bay area" during a two-year span in the mid-
1980s. At Ricky Ross's conversion rate, that's enough
cocaine to make 30 million doses of crack. "Danilo
Blandón was the biggest dealer in the Los Angeles area for
about two years," the Torres brothers concluded.
U.S. government officials were even more generous in
their appraisals. "Mr. Blandón was considered to be
probably the largest Nicaraguan cocaine dealer in the
United States, is that correct?" Assistant U.S. Attorney L. J.
O'Ncale asked Blandón's DEA case agent, Charles Jones,
during a 1995 federal grand jury hearing in San Diego.
"I believe so, sir," Jones testified.
Both men had reason to know. O'Neale had been
monitoring the activities of Blandón and his associates
since the 1980s. Jones had been watching him since at
least the early 1990s, and would describe Blandón in a
sworn statement in 1992 as a "multi-ton dealer."
Becoming the biggest dealer in the biggest cocaine
market in the United States in less than four years is no
small testament to Blandón's sales and marketing skills.
But what makes his rise to the top even more remarkable is

===== PDF PAGE 315 =====
the fact that his friend, mentor, and cocaine supplier,
Norwin Meneses, was working for the DEA toward the end
of Blandón's ascendancy.
After the arrests of his nephew Jairo and Renato Pena in
late 1984, the drug lord quickly wound up his affairs in San
Francisco, selling his gray Jag, his used car lot, and his
Mission District office building, and moving his base of
operations to his beachfront ranch in Costa Rica. "I went to
Costa Rica to see him right after he moved and I spent
about six months on his ranch down there," said John
Lacome, a Bay Area friend of Meneses and his nephews.
"He would take us into town, take us to the clubs, get us
some girls. I got a great picture of him while I was there.
He's standing next to one of his cows and he's wearing this
black baseball hat with a picture of a clock on it that says,
'It's Party Time!'"
Meneses was no stranger to Costa Rica, a picturesque
and normally placid little democracy on Nicaragua's
southern border. Like Somoza, Blandón, and other wealthy
Nicaraguans, Meneses had had a home there since before
the Sandinista takeover. Meneses owned not one house
but several, and large ranches in northern Costa Rica, near
the war zone. The 
LA. Times
, citing an unnamed source,
reported that "beginning in November 1982 Meneses was
spending much of his time in Costa Rica and commuting
back to San Francisco."
He also had important friends in Costa Rica.
"Norwin receives political protection from Jose Marti
Figueres, the son of former Costa Rican President Jose
'Pepe' Figueres," an informant told DEA. agents in 1984.
Jose Marti Figueres, the older brother of Costa Rica's

===== PDF PAGE 316 =====
current president, was accused in 1995 of swindling the
Costa Rican State Lottery of six million dollars. He was
also implicated in the 1970s with fugitive financier Robert
Vesco in a scheme to profit from the nationalization of
Costa Rica's gasoline distributors.
Who Norwin Meneses was and what he did for a living
was no mystery to Costa Rican police officials, or the
American DEA agents assigned there. The DEA was first
informed of Meneses's Costa Rican drug operations in
February 1984, when a confidential informant was
debriefed at the U.S. embassy in San Jose and reported
that Meneses was in charge of a major cocaine trafficking
ring. Six months later the DEA learned that a small cocaine
shipment destined for Meneses had been seized at the
international airport in San Jose by the Costa Rican police.
Costa Rican authorities knew him as "one of the most
important traffickers of drugs, as much in the Nicaragua of
Somoza, as at the moment in Costa Rica." That 1985
report from an OIJ investigation stated, "He was one of the
first economic supports of the FDN in Costa Rica. There
are rumors that he works as an informant for the DEA." It
was more than rumor; it was true. And the DEA may not
have been the only U.S. government agency in Costa Rica
to have availed itself of the drug kingpin's services.
To hear the DEA tell it, Meneses simply walked into the
U.S. Embassy in Costa Rica one day in July 1986,
unsolicited, and announced to the assembled agents that
he had come to enlist in the Reagan Administration's war
on drugs.
DEA agent Sandalio Gonzalez was on hand to faithfully
record the official reasons behind the kingpin's life-altering
decision: "(a) his desire to clear up a minor problem he has
with the IRS (b) his decision to totally terminate his

===== PDF PAGE 317 =====
involvement in drug trafficking activities and (c) his desire
to help the present U.S. Administration's fight against
drugs, in view of President Reagan's total commitment to
free his native land, Nicaragua."
If Meneses wanted to help the Reagan Administration,
he'd come to the right place. The U.S. Embassy in San
Jose, Costa Rica, was the nerve center for all of the
Administration's covert operations on the so-called
Southern Front of the Contra war, and these included a
number of illegal CIA ventures that would later be exposed
during the Iran-Contra scandal. The American
Ambassador, Lewis Tambs, was taking orders directly
from Oliver North and the CIA's Costa Rican station chief,
Joseph Fernandez, was so heavily involved with illegal
Contra operations that he would be fired and indicted for
his participation.
But there are several reasons to doubt agent Gonzalez's
stirring account of Meneses' redemption. First, it is likely
that the drug lord was already working for the DEA before
that report was written, snooping around in a murder case
tinged with CIA overtones. In an interview, Meneses said he
had helped the DEA gather intelligence on the February
1985 torture-murder of DEA agent Enrique "Kiki"
Camarena in Mexico, whose demise at the hands of
Mexican traffickers made him a hero to many narcotics
agents. Meneses claims he provided information that
helped U.S. authorities capture one of the Mexican drug
lords involved, Rafael Caro Quintcro, at a mansion outside
San Jose, Costa Rica, in April 1985. That claim could not
be corroborated, but Gonzalez's report does note that
Meneses had "helped the DEA in the past."
Meneses said he also met with the DEA's Costa Rican
attache, Robert J. Nievcs, in late 1985, again concerning

===== PDF PAGE 318 =====
the Camarena case. Meneses described Nieves as
"desperate" for information Norwin supposedly had on the
crime. Nieves refused to discuss Meneses, or anything
else.
Not coincidentally, the issue of the Contras and drugs
flared up during some of the 1991–92 criminal trials of
Camarena's alleged killers. A longtime CIA operative in
Mexico, Lawrence Victor Harrison, testified that the CIA
was then collaborating with the Mexican intelligence service
and cartel bosses who were providing money, arms, and
training facilities for the Contras in exchange for the CIA's
protection of their drug enterprises.
Both Harrison and his DEA overseer, I lector Berrellez,
who headed an investigation into Camarena's murder,
believe the agent was killed because his investigations into
some "protected" marijuana plantations threatened to
disrupt or expose this marriage of convenience. Based on
his investigation—which discovered the audiotapes his
killers made during their torture sessions—Berrellez
recommended that a federal grand jury be convened to
examine the CIA's knowledge of Camarena's murder. Soon
afterwards, Berrellez, one of the DEA's most decorated
agents, was transferred to Washington and given a do-
nothing desk job until his retirement.
Exactly what services Norwin Meneses was performing
for the DEA during those years in Costa Rica is hard to
know because few records were kept of his activities.
When the Justice Department's Inspector General checked
the files in 1997, he found vague and sometimes wildly
misleading accusations Meneses had made against other
traffickers, such as the ridiculous claim that Danilo Blandón,
who'd helped Norwin start the FDN offices in California,
"was a Sandinista sympathizer."

===== PDF PAGE 319 =====
Even more suspicious is the fact that the DEA made no
official record for at least a year that Meneses was one of
its informants. The drug kingpin's name didn't show up in
the DEA's database of informers until 1987. Costa Rican
DEA agent Gonzalez explained this oddity to Justice
Department investigators by saying that the trafficker
"initially refused to sign DEA's informant registration."
Gonzalez admitted this was unusual but said he "[allowed] it
because of Meneses' background and potential to make
cases." In truth, it was because Meneses was wanted by
the FBI in San Francisco for trafficking and, as we shall
see, the DEA was protecting him. Another result of this
"unusual" arrangement, the Inspector General observed,
was that "other DEA offices could not get information on
Mcncscs' use by the DEA through this database."
In other words, one of the biggest and richest cocaine
traffickers in all of Latin America became an exclusive, off-
the-books, protected informant for a tiny DEA office in
Costa Rica—a country with few known drug problems then
—during the time the Reagan Administration was
desperately seeking to replace the CIA money the Costa
Rican Contras had lost. "Within the administration there
was no doubt that the resistance would continue to be
supported," Oliver North wrote of those times in his
memoirs. "The only question was how."
One idea North had in 1984, records show, was to use
drug money. At a top-level meeting with DEA officials in
Washington, North shocked the room into silence by
suggesting that $1.5 million in cocaine cash the DEA
planned to seize from the Medellin cartel should be turned
over to the Contras. The DEA says it declined North's
suggestion. Subsequently, a White House leak blew the
operation, and several DEA officials believed North was

===== PDF PAGE 320 =====
responsible, something he has denied.
With the assistance of former securities lawyer and then-
CIA director William Casey, Oliver North created an
elaborate network of offshore bank accounts to conceal the
source of the money that was to sustain the Contras
through the Congressional funding cutoff. North wrote that
Casey didn't want the Contras' "unofficial funds" coming
into U.S. banks because of fears that Treasury agents on
the lookout for drug money would grow suspicious of the
large sums of cash that would soon be arriving in those
accounts.
Roger Mayorga, the former chief of criminal
investigations for the Nicaraguan National Police, believes
Meneses was actually working for the CIA in Costa Rica,
using his role as a DEA informant as a cover for his real
tasks.
"They used Meneses in Costa Rica basically for money
laundering operations," said Mayorga, a former Sandinista
intelligence officer who monitored Meneses for years. "He
was really in the background."
There is some circumstantial evidence to buttress this
claim. At the time, Norwin's brother, Jaime Sr., owned a
large money-changing business in San Jose. Norwin also
had a couple of legitimate business fronts that were also
useful for laundering cash, including a restaurant across the
street from the U.S. Embassy, a gambling club, and a bean
processing factory. His partner in the latter concern was
FDN director Aristides Sanchez's playboy brother, Troilo, a
former CIA pilot fingered in 1982 as a supplier to Meneses'
operations in San Francisco.
The idea of the DEA and CIA swapping agents and
providing cover for each other is not hard to believe. The
agencies had adjoining offices in the U.S Embassy in San

===== PDF PAGE 321 =====
Jose. DKA agents assigned to Costa Rica in the 1980s
told the Justice Department of "having an amicable
relationship with the CIA Costa Rica Station personnel"
and DEA agent Gonzalez, in fact, kept the CIA supplied
with intelligence on arms smuggling by leftist guerrillas in El
Salvador. Despite the amicability of their "working
relationship" with the CIA, the DEA agents told of taking
great pains to hide-it from the Costa Rican police, but didn't
say why that was necessary.
Whatever it was the DEA and CIA were collaborating so
happily upon, one thing is crystal clear: it couldn't have had
a thing to do with preventing Contra drug trafficking.
"The information the CIA gave the DEA was often too
vague or general to be of use," DKA agents complained to
the Justice Department's Inspector General. "Indeed,
neither [of the two DEA Country Attaches] in Costa Rica
from 1980 to 1985 could recall any specific information
about drug trafficking that the CIA station ever gave them."
Not a single DEA agent "could recall the CIA providing
any information about Contras who might have been
involved in narcotics trafficking," the report continued.
There's no mystery to that. "CIA personnel from the Costa
Rica Station. . .do not recall giving any information about
narcotics trafficking by Contras to the DEA."
Despite all the official rhetoric from the Reagan
Administration about just saying no and cracking down on
crack, CIA officers who served in Central America in the
1980s said they never felt a need to actually do anything
about the drug trafficking that was swirling all around them.
"Narcotics was just not on the radar screen at the time,"
one CIA officer told the Inspector General's office. A former
Central American CIA station chief agreed, saying that
drugs were "not something [my agents] were looking for in

===== PDF PAGE 322 =====
the 1980s."
Unless, of course, the wrong people were selling them.
"[One] CIA officer and several other Agency analysts
note that, with respect to Nicaragua, the U.S. policy focus
was on the Sandinista government's involvement in
narcotics trafficking, not on that of the Contras," CIA
Inspector General Fred Hitz wrote in 1998. "The
policymakers, one analyst asserts, really wanted to 'stick it
to' the Sandinistas on this subject."
"All of the Central American Stations were seeking
information that would link the Sandinistas to drug
trafficking," a top CIA official told the Inspector General.
"The goal was to diminish the image of the Sandinistas."
One Central American Station Chief remembered
watching Langley's odd non-reaction to the first wave of
Contra drug trafficking reports, which he said came "fairly
early" into his assignment. He quickly realized which side of
the drug war the CIA was on in Central America.
What the CIA did or didn't do about drugs "has to be
considered in the context of DCI William Casey's overriding
political objective," the station chief insisted. The CIA
contingent running the Contra project "had one overriding
priority: to oust the Sandinista government."
Consequently, the CIA "assigned a low priority to
collecting intelligence concerning the Contras' alleged
involvement in narcotics trafficking. . .Agency analysts had
only a small number of reports on which to base their
analysis." Even then, Hitz found, only a privileged few inside
the Agency were allowed to sec them, because they were
classified as "Sensitive Memorandums" and few had a
clearance mighty enough to know such secrets.
CIA's unspoken policy about Contra drug dealers, the
station chief concluded, was that "we were going to play

===== PDF PAGE 323 =====
with these guys. That was made clear by Casey and
[Dewey] Clarridge."
A good example of this policy in action was the
arrangement Norwin Mencses reached with the DEA to
help the Reagan Administration win the war against drugs
and communism. Mencses' partner, Troilo Sanchez, told
CIA inspectors that while Meneses was living in Costa Rica
he was dealing cocaine for the Contras, an activity that
seems starkly at odds with the usual functions of a DEA
informant. Even Meneses' handler, DEA agent Sandy
Gonzalez, suspected he was moving cocaine while turning
in other dealers.
According to Rafael Cornejo, one of Meneses' Bay Area
distributors, Gonzalez's hunch was correct. Norwin's
business expanded terrifically while he was spying for the
DEA. "Those were very big years in terms of. . .well, the
contraband," Cornnejo said hesitantly. "That's why I have a
hard time believing Norwin was working with the feds."
The FBI, however, had no problems believing it and their
thinking tracked with Roger Mayorga's, the former
Sandinista intelligence officer: Meneses was being
protected because he working for the CIA. In a remarkable
1988 cable to FBI headquarters in Washington, San
Francisco FBI agent Donald Hale wrote: "It became
apparent to the FBI that Norwin Mcneses was, and may still
be, an informant of the DEA. It is also believed by the FBI,
SF, that Norwin Meneses was, and may still be, an
informant for the Central Intelligence Agency."
The CIA, of course, denies it and Hale, who pursued
Meneses for years, is now dead. The Justice Department
says the agent based his belief on the fact that Meneses
told friends his CIA work made him immune from
prosecution.

===== PDF PAGE 324 =====
Whatever its source, Mcneses obviously had some kind
of protection while operating in Costa Rica. By 1984 his
drug dealing there was well known to the CIA, the DEA, and
the Costa Rican OIJ. Yet in all the years he lived there, he
was neither arrested nor expelled. "There were some
stories in the Costa Rican papers about me, planted by the
Communists, which said I was involved in drug trafficking,
but nothing ever came of it," Meneses said dismissively.
Perhaps the strongest indicator of Mcncscs' true function
is the fact that soon after he waltzed into the DFA's office in
San Jose, he was paired up with a veteran CIA operative
who had freshly arrived from Europe. Like Norwin, the CIA
man was in Costa Rica posing as an informant for the
DEA. Agent Gonzailez told Justice Department inspectors
in 1997 that Meneses' CIA sidekick—whom the drug lord
introduced to others as "Roberto"—" claimed to have
worked for the CIA for many years before in Europe and the
Soviet Union, and the CIA had then turned [him] over to the
DEA."
Why a CIA agent with a long background in Soviet affairs
would suddenly surface in Costa Rica and be teamed up
with a Latin American drug smuggler is not addressed in
the declassified versions of the Justice Department
Inspector General's report. The declassified CIA Inspector
General's report never even mentions the mysterious agent,
even though he would play a significant role in helping to
keep Meneses out of the FBI's clutches.
Later events would suggest that Meneses and Roberto
weren't "investigating" drug trafficking at all—they were
monitoring it. And the best evidence of that is the fact that
the first drug ring Meneses and his spooky associate were
assigned to "investigate" was Danilo Blandón's roaring
crack enterprise in South Central Los Angeles.

===== PDF PAGE 325 =====
DEA agent Gonzalez told Justice Department inspectors
that he "planned to use Meneses only to introduce other
informants into the Blandón organization," reportedly
because he thought Mcneses would be "difficult to control."
But how reuniting Norwin Meneses with Danilo Blandón, his
old friend and former employee, and inserting a CIA agent
into the mix, would help keep the drug kingpin under control
is a question that, so far, has eluded explanation.
Much of the information the DEA and CIA picked up about
Meneses and Contra drug dealing in Costa Rica centered
around Guanacaste Province, an isolated northern area
infested with Contra camps, rural landing strips, and easily
bribed government and police officials. According to a
special Costa Rican legislative commission, during 1984
and 1985 the area served as the headquarters for "an
organization made up of Panamanians, Colombians,
Costa Ricans and citizens of other nationalities who
dedicated themselves to international cocaine trafficking,
using Costa Rica as a bridge for the refueling of planes that
came from Colombia." That drug ring, which was being run
with the help of Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega,
worked closely with the Contras, the legislative commission
found. "Specifically, use was made of the same landing
strips and the collaboration of the same Costa Rican
authorities that had aided the Contras," the commission's
report stated, adding that Contra pilots provided "the
gasoline that was used for refueling the planes of the
organization."
Evidence produced during the DEA investigation of
Manuel Noriega revealed that his drug trafficking ring
loaded up planes with cocaine in Colombia; the planes

===== PDF PAGE 326 =====
refueled at Contra airstrips in northern Costa Rica before
continuing to the United States and dumping their loads in
Louisiana and Texas. Former Costa Rican government
pilot Werner Lotz Octavio confirmed to a U.S. Senate
subcommittee in 1988 that Noriega's pilots would fly up
weapons for the Contras along with the drugs, leaving the
guns behind in Costa Rica, before hitting two routes north:
one through Mexico for the West Coast market, and the
other through the Bahamas for the East Coast's coke
buyers.
"The people who were flying in the weapons used and
made contacts with certain people in Costa Rica to be able
to use their airfields as a jump point to carry drugs for them,
for refueling stops," Lotz testified. "There was a charge, you
know, the allowing of the aircrafts to land, to drop the
weapons, and to proceed with the drugs. Or to better
explain, the landing fees, to put it this way, were paid with
weapons."
"How was it possible for these drug planes to go in and
out of the airstrips without being detected and without
creating problems in Costa Rica?" a Senate investigator
asked Lotz.
"Very simple, sir. Costa Rica has got a very poor radar."
"So there was no radar to detect them? Wasn't there
danger that they would be arrested on the ground?"
"None, because it was previously arranged. All the
landings were arranged. They were supported by the
revolutionaries themselves," answered Lotz, who admitted
to flying weapons and drugs for several years.
"Were there many police or Rural Guard people in that
region?" the investigator pressed.
"To be very clear with you, sir, our Guard down there is
barefooted, and you're talking 50 men to cover 400

===== PDF PAGE 327 =====
kilometers maybe," Lotz explained. (The head of the Costa
Rican Rural Guard in Guanacaste Province, Colonel Edwin
Viales Rodriguez, was convicted in 1988 of providing
security for those drug and weapons flights. He allegedly
told a friend that he was doing it for the CIA and was paid
between $20,000 and $30,000 a flight.)
While the barefoot Costa Rican Rural Guard may not
have been able to keep up with such a well-oiled drug
operation, the CIA and DEA couldn't use the same excuse.
The number of American agents stationed in Costa Rica
exploded during the Contra war years, and U.S.
reconaissance aircraft and spy satellites made routine
overflights, photographing miles of northern Costa Rica for
the Contra war effort and monitoring Sandinista troop
movements and the rural airfields the Contras used for their
supply flights.
Yet in spite of all this cutting-edge technology, plus
firsthand human intelligence from Norwin Meneses, the
Americans proved surprisingly inept at catching drug
dealers. "Despite obvious and widespread trafficking
through the war zones of northern Costa Rica, the
Subcommittee was unable to find a single case against a
drug trafficker operating in those zones which was made on
the basis of a tip or report by an official of a U.S.
intelligence agency," a U.S. Senate subcommittee reported
in 1988. "This is despite an executive order requiring
intelligence agencies to report trafficking to law
enforcement officials and despite direct testimony that
trafficking on the Southern Front was reported to CIA
officials."
Costa Rican law enforcement officials said in interviews
that the contingent of DEA agents working from the U.S.
Embassy in San Jose showed little interest in helping them

===== PDF PAGE 328 =====
probe reports of Contra drug trafficking. Jorge Chavarria, a
former prosecutor who investigated several such cases in
the 1980s for the Costa Rican OIJ, said he was convinced
the DEA "knew about the Contras and drugs. All these
flights and pilots that were flying in and out with drugs could
not have been ignored by the DEA. They were looking in
the other direction."
There is some evidence to substantiate that accusation.
During a 1987 Senate subcommittee hearing, Senator
John Kerry of Massachusetts told DEA director Jack Lawn
that "the head of the DEA office in Costa Rica was
interviewed by this committee and he told us that the
infrastructure that was used to supply the Contras was used
to smuggle drugs. This is 
your
 DEA officer in Costa Rica.
Are you familiar with that report?"
"No, sir, I am not," Lawn said. The DEA's position, said
Lawn and aide David Westrate, was that there was "no
credible evidence" to support such allegations. The DEA
officer in Costa Rica who was questioned by Kerry's
committee, Robert J. Nieves, was in a perfect position to
know, however. According to Norwin Meneses, Nieves was
his control agent, and would be throughout the remainder of
the 1980s.
Meneses's appearance in Costa Rica also coincides
with a time when his drug network there had been suddenly
rendered leaderless, accidentally disrupted by a Costa
Rican police investigation.
In May 1984 the OIJ raided the San Jose home of
Meneses's business partners Troilo and Isanaqui Sanchez,
whom they suspected of moving thousands of dollars worth
of cocaine every month. According to newspaper reports,
Sanchez's wife ran to the bedroom and tossed a package
out the window containing nearly a pound of cocaine.

===== PDF PAGE 329 =====
One former Costa Rican Contra official, Leonardo
Zeledon Rodriguez, told UPI in 1986 that Sanchez "was
caught in Costa Rica with pillows full of cocaine. Troilo is a
brother-in-law of Adolfo Calero." Both Sanchez and his wife
were arrested on trafficking charges, but the charges
against his wife were dismissed. Troilo was acquitted after
convincing the jury that he was an addict and the cocaine
was for his own use. Nonetheless, the raid provided the
Costa Rican authorities with the break they needed to land
an even bigger fish in the Meneses organization.
While searching Sanchez's house, the agents were
interrupted by a banging on the front door. Opening it, they
came face-to-face with a very surprised Horacio Pereira
Lanuza—"La Burra"—the Meneses lieutenant who had
been supplying cocaine to Carlos Cabezas and Julio
Zavala in San Francisco and funneling the profits to the
UDN-FARN Contra army of Fernando "El Negro"
Chamorro.
In August or September 1984, a recently declassified
CIA cable-shows, Meneses had approached "Negro"
Chamorro and asked the Contra leader "to help move
drugs to the U.S." Neither Chamorro's nor the CIA's
response to Meneses's overture was disclosed.
Though Horacio Pereira's drug trafficking activities had
been known to both the FBI and the U.S. Customs Service
since 1982, those agencies apparently never bothered to
inform the Costa Ricans that they had a major dealer in
their midst. According to the Costa Rican paper 
La
Nacion
, the OIJ agents had no idea who Pereira was the
day he put in his unexpected guest appearance at Troilo
Sanchez's house. Once they made his acquaintance,
however, they were loath to let it end. In November 1984
they placed wiretaps on his phones and those of two

===== PDF PAGE 330 =====
associates. They quickly learned that Pereira "was one of
the biggest narcotraffickers to have operated from this
country," 
La Nacion
 reported—the man behind nearly every
major drug trafficking case in Costa Rica since 1981, with
"connections in Honduras, Colombia, San Andres and the
United States."
As the OIJ agents listened in on Pereira's phone calls,
they were stunned to find themselves eavesdropping on
Costa Rican Contra commanders, who were discussing
cocaine shipments, drug labs, weapons deliveries, and
international politics with the cocaine dealer. Among those
captured on the wiretaps were UDN-FARN subcommander
Edmundo Chamorro; Ernest Hidalgo Abuanza, UDN-
FARN's logistics chief and the personal assistant to UDN-
FARN commander "El Negro" Chamorro; Guillermo Bolt, a
CIA-trained Contra pilot who flew for Eden Pastora's ARDE
Contra group; and Sebastian "Guachan" Gonzalez, the
man in charge of the Panamanian logistics for ARDE and
UDN-FARN. During one conversation, a caller mentioned
that Gonzalez was building a cocaine processing lab in
Panama, and hinted that he was kicking back $20 million a
month to Panamanian authorities for the privilege of doing
business there.
The Pereira wiretaps were an intelligence bonanza for
the Costa Rican police. "Guachan" Gonzalez was a wanted
man at the time of his calls, having recently fled Costa Rica
after he and UDN-FARN's logistics chief were caught with
600 grams of cocaine in a house in Guanacaste Province.
Gonzalez was overheard calling Pereira from his hideout in
Panama, where he was living under the protection of
Manuel Noriega, then head of the Panamanian military.
A charismatic and intelligent smuggler, Gonzalez had
worked for the CIA since 1983 as the Panamanian

===== PDF PAGE 331 =====
quartermaster for all the Costa Rican Contra armies,
arranging supplies and deliveries from Noriega's armed
forces. He was "a personal friend of Manuel Noriega since
high school years. His job was to manage the arms flights
from Panama to the ARDE forces in Costa Rica," ARDE
commander Eden Pastora said.
According to a 1998 CIA report, Norwin Meneses "was
known to be involved in the drug trafficking activities of
Sebastian Gonzalez." A 1984 cable from the Costa Rican
CIA station to CIA headquarters in Langley said Meneses
and "another trafficker, Tuto Munkel, were involved in drug
trafficking with Sebastian Gonzalez Mendieta in Costa
Rica. . .. It was reported that Meneses owned a restaurant
in which Gonzalez might have had a financial interest."
According to the cable, "Meneses, Gonzalez and Munkel
were well-known as the 'Nicaraguan Mafia,' dealing in
drugs, weapons smuggling and laundering of counterfeit
money." (The "Tuto Munkel" mentioned in the CIA cable
may be Augusto Mönkel, a Contra supporter who was
detained in Miami with Horacio Pereira for currency
violations during the FBI's investigation of the Frogman
case in 1982.)
In a 1990 interview with journalist Douglas Vaughan,
Gonzales said Horacio Pereira had offered him money to
help finance a new Contra movement he started when he
broke with Pastora in 1983: the M-3. "Horacio Pereira
earlier had loaned money to Eden Pastora and he offered
to help M-3 but we rejected this because Norwin Meneses
and Troilo Sanchez were involved in drugs," Gonzalez said.
"They were close to [FDN founder] Aristides Sanchez."
Largely on the strength of the wiretaps, Horacio Pereira
was convicted of drug trafficking in 1986 and sentenced to
twelve years in jail, one of the harshest sentences a Costa

===== PDF PAGE 332 =====
Rican court had ever handed down for a drug crime. The
verdict was significant enough to attract the attention of the
CBS Evening News
, which aired a brief report in June
1986 on Pereira's trial and the undercover tapes. "The
wire-tapped phone calls show the drug dealers have ties to
the highest level of Contra leadership in Costa Rica," CBS
correspondent Mike O'Connor reported. "Costa Rican
narcotics officers say much more dope has been flowing
through their country to the United States since the Contras
began operating from here and they don't believe it's a
coincidence."
Pereira never served a day of his sentence. He was
released on bail and immediately disappeared. Meneses
said his friend was "chopped into tiny bits" in Guatemala a
few years later, when he became embroiled in a dispute
over a drug debt.
The Costa Rican government's indictments of Pereira,
"Guachan" Gonzalez, and Troilo Sanchez might have been
expected to put a crimp in cocaine trafficking in that small
nation. After all, Costa Rica's biggest dealer, Pereira, was
out of business, Gonzalez was on the run, and their
supplier, Norwin Meneses, was now working as an
undercover informant for the DEA.
But that wasn't the case. "It was precisely in that period
when the transshipment of weapons and drugs in our
country grew," a Costa Rican legislative commission
reported. Again, this growth can traced to a drug ring
involving the Contras and the CIA.
CIA records and the declassified testimony of former CIA
officials who oversaw the Contra program in Costa Rica
confirm that the intelligence agency began receiving
reports of drug trafficking by Eden Pastora's ARDE faction
in late 1984. In a secret congressional hearing in April

===== PDF PAGE 333 =====
1987, former CIA Costa Rican station chief Joseph
Fernandez testified that "there were certainly substantiated
cases—and we can name names if you wish—of people in
[Pastora's] coterie, of supporters and his lieutenants that
did have connections with drug traffickers and, in fact, he
himself received funds from a person who was known to be
affiliated with drug traffickers."
Pastora admits all that, but says it was due entirely to the
CIA. In an interview, the former Contra commander claimed
he was the target of an elaborate CIA scheme to force him
out of the war, a plot that involved the use of drug dealers
working for the intelligence agency. This occurred, he said,
after he refused CIA orders to unite his forces with the
former National Guardsmen in the CIA's northern Contra
army, the FDN, which was being run by Norwin Meneses's
friends.
The problem for the agency, Pastora said, was that many
of his fighters refused U.S. government entreaties to desert
him for the new Costa Rican Contra army the CIA was
putting together, and they decided to fight on without the
agency's assistance. The CIA had to get Pastora out of the
way because it needed his veteran commanders and his
men to run its new army.
While it is tempting to dismiss Pastora's theory as the
paranoid grumblings of an embittered and abandoned
asset, a considerable amount of documentary evidence
suggests he may be right. At one time, the CIA admits, "the
Agency's relationship with Pastora was one of its most
significant with a Contra leader." But after enduring years of
anti-FDN rhetoric and unpredictable behavior, Langley
began distancing itself from him in 1984 and ordered its
agents to have no "contact with him under any
circumstances unless it is clone for the purpose of

===== PDF PAGE 334 =====
manipulating him towards some objective clearly consistent
with the policy in the region."
One CIA policy objective became to replace the
uncontrollable Pastora with someone the CIA could more
readily rely on: the crowd of drug dealers and Bay of Pigs
veterans working with Fernando "El Negro" Chamorro and
UDN-FARN.
To get rid of him, Pastora claimed, Nicaraguan CIA
assets approached him with offers of financial assistance,
which he desperately needed after his CIA funding was cut
off in May 1984. Pastora said he accepted their money and
their supplies, not knowing that the men were drug
traffickers.
When it came time to dispose of him, Pastora said, the
CIA leaked the information that he was getting help from
drug dealers, both to drain his support in the United States
and to make him the fall guy for the cocaine trafficking
being done by the CIA's "approved" Contra armies—the
FDN and UDN-FARN—which was about to be exposed by
the American press.
Former CIA station chief Fernandez disputed Pastora's
claims. "We attempted to diminish his influence by showing
other political leaders that he was an irresponsible person
and so forth, but never did we ever use narcotics or even
the rumor of narcotics trafficking or anything like that as a
means of bringing about this diminishment," Fernandez
testified. But recently released CIA files show his testimony
was at best misleading: the CIA told everyone and his
brother about it. "The reporting tying Pastora and senior
members of his group to drug smuggling operations in the
United States was disseminated by CIA to a broad range
of senior [U.S. government] intelligence and law
enforcement officials," the CIA's Inspector General wrote.

===== PDF PAGE 335 =====
That move stands in vibrant contrast to the Agency's
modesty about the Legion of September 15's and UDN-
FARN's drug dealing; predictably, the information dealt a
death blow to Pastora's already shaky relationship with
Washington.
Further evidence of the CIA's role can be found in the
backgrounds of the men who set up the drug deals that
eventually ruined Pastora. They had long-standing ties to
the CIA or Norwin Meneses, sometimes both. Two of them
have since publicly admitted the CIA was aware of their
drug dealing on behalf of Pastora's army and had, in fact,
okayed it.
Pastora's first offer of assistance came from Octaviano
Cesar, the former social director of Meneses's VIP
nightclub in Managua. The CIA now admits that he was one
of its snoops. "Agency officers met occasionally with Cesar
—usually in the United States—to gather information and to
promote unity among the Southern Front groups," the CIA
Inspector General found.
In March 1984 Cesar and two other Contra officials close
to the CIA—ARDE logistics chief Adolfo "Popo" Chamorro
and ARDE air force commander Marcos Aguado—met
with a major Colombian drug trafficker named George
Morales at his offices in Fort Lauderdale and asked him to
contribute to Pastora's army. "During our conversation they
told me they were CIA agents. Two of them said they were,
Octaviano Cesar and Marcos Aguado," Morales said in
1986 congressional testimony. "I knew that they belonged
to the Central Intelligence Agency and [I] also knew this
through several pilots, who at the time worked for me and
who had also been directly involved in operations with the
Contras flying airplanes." Like Octaviano Cesar, Marcos
Aguado was another old friend of Norwin Meneses. He was

===== PDF PAGE 336 =====
also a close associate of the CIA's man in northern Costa
Rica, John Hull, who served as the agency's unofficial
liaision to the Contras.
Morales, the Colombian trafficker, had supplied a few
shipments of guns to the rebels in 1983, and he was
surprised that the Contras still wanted his help in early
1984, since he had just been indicted by a federal grand
jury on conspiracy and cocaine trafficking charges. But
Morales said Cesar and Aguado made it clear that if he
assisted them again, they could make his legal problems
disappear. Cesar "told me he had plenty of friends, being
him, the CIA, can advise the superiors about my financial
support and airplane and training and therefore they will
finally, eventually, will take care of my problem, which they
did," Morales testified. During the entire time he was
working with the two Contras on drug deals, no action was
taken on his pending cocaine indictment. It was one
postponement after another, Morales said. When he
started talking to U.S. Senate investigators about his
Contra dealings two years later, however, the case moved
quickly to trial and conviction.
Morales later passed a DEA-administered lie detector
test about his drug dealings with the Contras. In addition,
two of the pilots who flew the Contra drug missions for him
confirmed Morales's story—under oath as U.S. government
witnesses.
Morales and the pilots, Fabio Ernesto Carrasco and
Gary Wayne Betzner, said planeloads of weapons were
flown to a ranch in northern Costa Rica owned by CIA
operative John Hull, whose cover was that of an aw-shucks
midwestern farmer managing some plantations for rich
gringos. In reality, Hull's ranch was a training area and
hiding place for Contra soldiers; it was where the Legion of

===== PDF PAGE 337 =====
September 15 gathered before its bumbling raid on the
Argentine radio station in 1980.
After they dropped off arms, Morales and the pilots said,
large green duffel bags full of cocaine belonging to the
Contras were loaded aboard and flown back into the
United States, usually to the public airport at Opa Locka,
Florida. "Every one of the flights I make to Costa Rica, the
cocaine was the Contras', not mine," Morales testified. "I
have my suppliers in Colombia. I don't need to go to Costa
Rica."
While Hull has vehemently denied accusations that drug
trafficking was occurring at his ranch, a once-secret FBI
report shows that the CIA official who was overseeing the
Contras from Washington during that time, Alan Fiers Jr.,
was convinced that Hull's ranch was being used for Contra
drug flights. "There is no doubt in Fiers's mind that
Pastora's men trans-shipped drugs out of the airstrip on
Hull's ranch," investigators for Iran-Contra prosecutor
Lawrence Walsh reported in 1991. "Fiers realized this
around 1986 when he heard all the evidence from Senator
John Kerry's hearings and from the newspapers. Fiers is
adamant that he has no knowledge of CIA complicity with
drug activity in Central America."
Hull, when told of Fiers's statement, was astonished.
"Hell, here I thought that all this time the people spreading
rumors like that were the Sandinistas and the Communists.
Now I find out it's my own government."
One of the Morales pilots who flew in and out of Hull's
ranch, "Tito" Carrasco, testified that one of Pastora's
commanders assured him he had nothing to worry about
because the CIA was protecting the flights from Costa Rica
all the way into Florida. "Octaviano and Popo tell George
[Morales], 'Listen, these people supposed to work for the

===== PDF PAGE 338 =====
CIA, those people are supposed to have, you know,
everything under control, so the people tell George, 'Do it at
Opa Locka. Nothing will happen if the plane arrives at Opa
Locka,'" Carrasco testified.
"And you flew into Opa Locka?" he was asked.
"Yes."
"Did anyone stop you?"
"Nobody," Carrasco said.
Carrasco's opinion was that the entire operation was
being protected from police interference all the way from
Panama, where his drug flights originated. "Every week I
flew to Panama, between Panama and Costa Rica, with
different passports and different names and they never
asked me why," Carrasco testified. "So if that is not
protection, I don't know what is protection."
The Contra officials gave Carrasco and Morales "good
passports" from Nicaragua during a party at Morales's
house in Miami. The passports were complete with entry
and exit stamps from a variety of countries, Carrasco said;
they lacked only a name and a photograph.
Carrasco's copilot, Gary "Hippie" Betzner, also testified
that their flights were protected by the CIA. "And did these
CIA people permit you to fly airplanes into foreign countries
carrying weapons?" a defense lawyer asked him during a
federal trial in Oklahoma.
"Why, sure," Betzner said.
"And bring drugs back?"
"Yes."
"And did these CIA people know what you were doing
with the drugs?"
"Certainly," Betzner insisted. (Like Carrasco, when
Betzner gave that testimony, he was on the stand as
witness for the Justice Department, not as a defendant.)

===== PDF PAGE 339 =====
Asked if he was surprised that his boss Morales was
helping the Contras, Betzner, who'd pleaded guilty to
federal drug charges, said, "No, actually, I wasn't surprised
by it because I knew that George was anti-Communist, as
are most Colombians. So the Cartel and people like that
are definitely anti-Communist to the—I don't suppose their
world would function too well in a Communist world. It's
strictly a capitalist movement, this drug business."
When money from the drug sales was collected,
Carrasco said, he would deliver it to CIA operatives
Chamorro and Cesar, "sometimes in the United States,
sometimes in Costa Rica." He said he delivered bags of
money "sometimes two, three times a day. . .. I paid a lot of
money, maybe millions."
In 1996 interviews with the 
Washington Post
, Cesar and
Chamorro both said the CIA was fully aware of their
involvement with the Colombian drug trafficker and had
approved of it beforehand. Cesar informed a CIA officer
stationed at Ilopango air base in El Salvador. Chamorro
went higher than that—to Langley. "I called our contact at
the CIA, of course I did," Chamorro told the 
Post
. "The truth
is we were still getting some CIA money under the table.
They said [Morales] was fine." While the 
Post
 thoughtfully
omitted the name of the CIA official who okayed the
arrangement, in an interview Chamorro identified him as
the head of the CIA's Central American Task Force, Alan
Fiers.
In congressional testimony, former Costa Rican CIA
station chief Joe Fernandez said Fiers once ordered him to
use two suspected drug traffickers in a still-secret CIA
operation involving the Contras. "For political
considerations, there were two individuals who were
associated with Pastora who had allegations against them

===== PDF PAGE 340 =====
for drug involvement and [the chief of the Central American
Task Force] wanted [censored]," the declassified hearing
transcript states. "I objected to it in cable traffic, in person,
and it was deemed necessary [censored], at least since
these were only allegations and not proof, and so I was
overruled and we proceeded to do it and we did it."
"But in your mind it went beyond allegation, didn't it?"
Senator Daniel Inouye of Hawaii asked.
"Yes, sir," Fernandez replied. "[Censored] there were
indications that our suspicions might be more well founded
than. . ."
The rest of Fernandez's exchange with Inouye was
censored for national security reasons.
After his first meeting with the Contras, Morales testified,
he agreed to give the men an aged C-47 cargo plane that
he had stored in Haiti, and $10,000 with which to fly the
lumbering transport to Ilopango. Pastora's planes had been
hangared there since 1983 under an arrangement worked
out between CIA pilot Aguado and the Salvadoran Air
Force. The C-47 was the first of many aircraft the
Colombian trafficker would give to the Contras. According
to a Senate subcommittee investigation, the airplane was
officially transferred from Morales to Marcos Aguado for $1
on October 1, 1984, and saw considerable service on the
Southern Front.
In 1987 investigative reporter Jonathan Kwitny obtained
the refueling receipts for the C-47 and reported that the
plane "was repeatedly piloted into and out of Ilopango Air
Force Base in El Salvador by Marcos Aguado." Another
one of the C-47's pilots, Kwitny found, was Gerardo Duran,
a Costa Rican drug pilot who also served as chief pilot
instructor for the Southern Front Contras. Duran was
convicted of narcotics trafficking in Costa Rica in 1987 and

===== PDF PAGE 341 =====
jailed.
"Morales contends that his C-47 would continue on from
Ilopango to Colombia, where it was reloaded with drugs
before flying back to Florida," Kwitny reported. "This
assertion is entirely plausible, and is even somewhat
corroborated by Justice Department charges that Morales
was importing cocaine at the time for the largest
Colombian cartel."
Morales told Congress that his old C-47 remained part of
the Contras' air force for years, which both Aguado and
congressional investigators confirmed. "Chamorro gave
the Subcommittee a list of flights made by that C-47 to ferry
arms from Ilopango to Costa Rica," a Senate
subcommittee report stated. "Between October 18, 1984
and February 12, 1986, some 156,000 pounds of material
were moved from Ilopango to air fields in Costa Rica."
When he quit the war in May 1986, Aguado said he sold
the airplane for $30,000. The buyer? Norwin Meneses. In
1997, Aguado said, the C-47 was still being used by
Meneses in Venezuela.
Soon after Morales began supplying him with money,
Pastora said, Danilo Blandón popped up waving cash.
Pastora knew Blandón from before the Sandinista
revolution, when Blandón headed a pro-Somoza student
group in college. "We knew of him as a man who always
had money," Pastora said. "In fact, he was regarded in
Nicaragua as a millionaire. He was a member of the
Blandón family, a family that had always been well-to-do."
Pastora said he met with Blandón during a trip to Los
Angeles in late 1984. Marcos Aguado confirmed that and
said he accompanied Pastora to the meeting. Both men
agreed that Blandón provided cash—according to Pastora,
$6,000; according to Aguado, $20,000—two pickup trucks,

===== PDF PAGE 342 =====
and the keys to Blandón's vacation home in San Jose,
Costa Rica, where Pastora lived rent-free for several years.
Blandón told the CIA he could have charged Pastora
$1,000 a month for rent if he'd wanted.
"The only time Danilo came down to Costa Rica was for
the parties," shrugged Meneses's partner, Troilo Sanchez.
It was around this time, according to former CIA official
Fliers, that the CIA learned Pastora was getting drug
money. "We knew that everybody around Pastora was
involved in cocaine," he testified in 1987. "We knew it from
November of 1984 forward. We reported it."
Pastora assumed Blandón was a successful car dealer,
not a dope peddler, and he said he thought nothing of the
donations at the time. "It seemed to me totally natural that a
friend of mine who was in very comfortable financial straits,
as are the Blandón family in Nicaragua, it just seemed very
natural to me that a person like that would give to me two
pickup trucks."
Another Blandón associate who came to Pastora's aid
after the CIA cutoff was a Nicaraguan pediatrician named
Dr. Felix Saborio who, Pastora said, volunteered to
become his representative to the anti-Communist Cuban
community in southern Florida, his liaison with the U.S.
news media, and an ARDE fund-raiser. Saborio was
frequently quoted in the 
Miami Herald
 and other papers as
Pastora's spokesman during 1984 and 1985. "Felix
Saborio was a close friend of Blandón from childhood,"
said Pastora's former aide, Carol Prado. "I also knew them
from childhood. They were very rich people. I went to a
party in Miami at Felix's house with Eden and that's where I
saw Blandón."
Saborio was also acquainted with Blandón's spooky
associate Ronald Lister. Lister told the CIA that he had

===== PDF PAGE 343 =====
"travelled to Hialeah, Florida sometime in 1982 or 1983
and met with a Contra member named 'Dr. Sabario' in an
effort to sell 'military supplies' to the Contras." The CIA
report stated that "the military supplies were commercially
available equipment such as non-reflective paint for
equipment and surveillance detection gear of the type that
can be purchased at electronic shops and 'spy' stores."
In 1992, court records show, Saborio posted part of
Chepita Blandón's bond after she was arrested on drug
trafficking charges in San Diego. The doctor did not return
phone calls inquiring about his relationship with the
trafficker or his wife. No evidence has surfaced implicating
Saborio in drug dealing.
"Blandón and Saborio. . .both vanished from my ranks
when it became clear that I was not willing to march to the
tune of the CIA," Pastora said. Blandón's interest in helping
ARDE always mystified him, "because I knew he had been
with the FDN from the very first. I thought he gave me a little
bit of money just so he could tell people that he had helped
Commandante Zero."
Pastora's involvement with the Colombian trafficker
Morales remained a secret until late 1985, when two
Associated Press reporters looking into allegations of
Contra drug dealing discovered some of the donations.
The source of their information was a leaked CIA analysis
of the narcotics trade that alleged that "one of ARDE's top
commanders, loyal to ARDE leader Eden Pastora, used
cocaine profits this year to buy a $250,000 arms shipment
and a helicopter." The AP story also mentioned that
"Guachan" Gonzales's M-3 group and the FDN were
suspected of being involved in drugs as well, but offered no
details.
Robert Parry, one of the AP reporters who wrote the

===== PDF PAGE 344 =====
groundbreaking story, said his editors sat on the piece for
weeks and edited it heavily, only to spike it at the last
minute. When it was accidentally transmitted over the AP's
Spanish-language wire, his editors rewrote the story once
again, and all references to the alleged involvement of CIA
operatives were deleted before it was released to the
American public. Parry later discovered that the AP's
Washington Bureau chief was having regular meetings with
Lieutenant Colonel Oliver North, who was running the
Contra program at the time.
Though emasculated by its editors and ignored by most
of the American media, the AP story kicked up a heated
controversy in Washington and prompted Senator John
Kerry's staff to begin an investigation. As the evidence of
Contra drug trafficking piled up and suspicions mounted,
CIA and State Department spokesmen immediately
pointed to Pastora as the only drug-dealing Contra they
knew, citing him as an example of how ridiculous were
accusations that the CIA would condone drug dealing.
Pastora's CIA funding was cut off, they said, at the first whiff
of impropriety.
To this day, Eden Pastora remains the only Contra
commander the U.S. government has ever officially
admitted was involved with drug money. A few months after
the AP story appeared, Pastora quit the Contra war and
became a fisherman. The CIA-linked ARDE commanders
who got him involved with the Colombian trafficker Morales
—Octaviano Cesar and "Popo" Chamorro—quickly joined
forces with the CIA's new Contra army.
Pastora's claim of a CIA plot becomes even more
believable when one considers who the Agency selected to
replace him as the Southern Front's military commander:
none other than Fernando "El Negro" Chamorro, the

===== PDF PAGE 345 =====
drunken leader of UDN-FARN, which had been getting
cocaine money from the Meneses organization since the
early 1980s. Former Costa Rican station chief Fernandaz
confirmed to Congress in 1987 that the CIA decided "to
diminish Pastora's influence" and "raise up the stature of
the Negro Chamorro people. . .what we needed to do was
put [Pastora] aside and at the same time enhance the
organization that we were supporting."
Why the CIA was so eager to promote such a drug-
tainted organization as UDN-FARN is one of the enduring
mysteries of the Contra war. Independent Counsel
Lawrence Walsh, in his memoirs of the Iran-Contra
scandal, wrote that Chamorro was picked because he "had
been acceptable to Contra leader Adolfo Calero and
responsive to the CIA." The agency's choice demonstrates
just how contrived the official shock was over Pastora's
involvement with drug dealers. Chamorro's Contras had far
more links to drug traffickers than Pastora's organization
ever did, and those ties could be traced all the way back to
the beginnings of the Contra war. The leadership of UDN-
FARN had been directly implicated in the Frogman case in
1983, a fact the CIA had strived mightly to conceal from the
American public. Moreover, "El Negro" was just as erratic
and unstable a military commander as Eden Pastora had
been—perhaps more so—and far less effective in
recruiting volunteer fighters. Most of Chamorro's band were
Cuban mercenaries and terrorists he and the CIA had
scoured from the Miami underworld.
But even when reports of UDN-FARN drug dealing
reached the highest levels in Wishington, the U.S.
government's financial and material support for the
organization never wavered. The money and the CIA
assistance kept right on coming.

===== PDF PAGE 346 =====
"The concern about Chamorro is that he drinks a fair
amount and may surround himself with people who are in
the war not only to fight but to make money," Lieutenant
Colonel Oliver North's Costa Rican emissary, Robert
Owen, nervously wrote North in April 1985. Owen, one of
the CIA's top informants in Costa Rica, listed eight of
Chamorro's associates as having "past indiscretions." The
list included UDN-FARN's air force chief, Jose "Chepon"
Robelo, whom Owen described as having "potential
involvement with drug running," and Meneses's partner,
Sebastian "Guachan" Gonzalez, whom Owen said was
"now involved in drug running out of Panama." That
Meneses and Gonzalez were dealing cocaine together had
been known to the CIA since late 1984, records show.
One of the men closely involved in the Contra operation
around that time, retired air force general Richard Secord,
told writer Leslie Cockburn in 1987 that he heard the same
allegations about the UDN-FARN commanders, and that
"most of them were true. I didn't pick them. The Agency
picked them."
As a fighting force, UDN-FARN was an unmitigated
disaster, probably the most inept Contra group there was.
Never numbering more than a couple hundred fighters,
UDN-FARN caused more grief for the U.S. government
than it ever caused the Sandinistas. Chamorro's boys were
creating "such a difficult situation" that CIA station chief Joe
Fernandez, who'd been instrumental in throwing the CIA's
support behind UDN-FARN, was catching flak from both
the Costa Rican government and the U.S. ambassador to
"get those people under control. 'They just do this and that'
and I mean it was just one headache after another,"
Fernandez testified. (If he elaborated on the "this and that,"
it was deleted from the heavily censored transcript of his

===== PDF PAGE 347 =====
testimony.)
According to Fernandez, Chamorro and his men couldn't
be driven into battle with a cattle prod. "They certainly had
to get their act together and their guts in place and say, 'No
more [Costa Rican] sanctuary, let's go in and fight the
Sandinistas,'" Fernandez told Congress in April 1987.
"They were extremely—and that is not an overstatement—
they were extremely reluctant to do so. Negro Chamorro to
this day that I know of has yet to get inside Nicaragua."
CIA informant Rob Owen confirmed that. "The Costa
Ricans wanted the people—they were up near the Costa
Rican/Nicaraguan border, they were in several camps—
they wanted them moved out. They wanted them moved at
least 40 kilometers inside Nicaragua," Owen testified.
"There was a hesitancy on the part of Negro Chamorro and
his people. . .. Their hesitancy was based on going deep
inside Nicaragua. They would not have Costa Rica to be
able to run back into should something happen."
Blandón's drug-dealing friends, the Torres brothers, told
L.A. County Sheriff's Office investigators that "during the
height of the Contra war, they would continually run into
supposed Contra commandantes in swank casinos
throughout Costa Rica. These 'commandantes' would laugh
and say they were just spending the CIA's payroll money of
about $7,000 a month," a 1996 report stated. (Why two
L.A. cocaine traffickers were cavorting through Costa Rica
at the height of the Contra war was not a question the
Torreses were asked.)
CIA officer Fernandez testified that "the last time I
remember Negro Chamorro being inside Nicaragua was in
1983 when he crossed the border [censored] and attacked,
if you can imagine, a guard post, a guard house 30 meters
or 30 yards inside Nicaragua. And then when he started to

===== PDF PAGE 348 =====
get his—when the Sandinistas counterattacked he ran to a
telephone on the [censored] side and dialed me in
Washington D.C., at Langley headquarters, asking for
mortars! So help me God! And I asked him, 'Where in the
hell are you calling from?' and he said, 'From the guard
post at [censored].' He said, 'We are under attack, you
need to send me arms!' and I said, 'You've got to be out of
your mind.'
"This is no joke," Fernandez assured the laughing
congressmen. "He called our outside line." The lawmakers
were apparently so amused by Fernandez's stories that
none of them thought to ask why the CIA continued to train
and finance such a clownish crew.
But El Negro and company weren't the CIA's headache
for long.
Shortly after UDN-FARN became the agency's anointed
force in Costa Rica, the CIA was forced to give up its active
role in the Contra project, and it left the mess it had created
for someone else to clean up. When the Boland
Amendment went into effect in October 1984, day-to-day
control of the Contra project passed to the Reagan White
House and Lieutenant Colonel Oliver North at the National
Security Council. "As the summer of 1984 came to an end,
I felt like I was straddling a canyon," North wrote. "On one
side was the resistance, always expanding, always
needing more. On the other side was the CIA, which was
steadily withdrawing its support."
If the CIA's blindness to Contra drug trafficking was bad,
it was nothing compared to what happened after North and
his network of spooks and mercenaries took the wheel.
Perhaps for the first time in history, the U.S. goverment
became business partners with cocaine traffickers. And
Norwin Meneses's cocaine began arriving in the United

===== PDF PAGE 349 =====
States aboard military transport planes.

===== PDF PAGE 350 =====
12

===== PDF PAGE 351 =====
"This guy talks to God"
W
hen they found Dr. Hugo Spadafora in September
1985, they found everything but his head. The rest of him
had been tied up in a U.S. mail sack and dumped under a
bridge on the border of Costa Rica and Panama.
His body bore evidence of unimaginable tortures. The
thigh muscles had been neatly sliced so he could not close
his legs, and then something had been jammed up his
rectum, tearing it apart. His testicles were swollen horribly,
the result of prolonged garroting, his ribs were broken, and
then, while he was still alive, his head had been sawed off
with a butcher's knife.
The horrors of Hugo Spadafora's death brought
thousands of people into the streets of Panama City, where
they formed a miles-long human chain of outrage and
lament. The dashing young doctor had been a hero to many
Panamanians—an unusual mix of revolutionary warrior and
middle-class professional.
When he was murdered, Spadafora had been fighting for
the Contras in Costa Rica, at the side of his old friend Eden
Pastora. They had fought together in the 1970s against the
Somoza dictatorship, with Spadafora leading an
international brigade of jungle fighters—the Brigada
Internacional Simón Bolívar—in support of Pastora's
southern forces. After the Sandinistas became too
oppressive for Pastora's liking, he joined the CIA and took
over command of a Contra army in Costa Rica. Hugo
Spadafora gave up his medical practice in Panama and,
with his wife Winy, moved to Costa Rica to take up arms
with Pastora once again—this time against their old
Marxist comrades.

===== PDF PAGE 352 =====
The Reagan administration's Contra PR machine
couldn't have dreamed up a better freedom fighter than
Hugo Spadafora. The DEA called him "reportedly the best
known guerrilla fighter in Central America." He was so
popular in Panama that the country's civilian president,
Nicolas Barletta, announced an immediate investigation
into his shocking murder. It was to be one of Barletta's last
official acts. A few weeks later he was forced to resign by
Manuel Noriega, the commander of the country's military,
and the promised investigation never occurred. Charged
with masterminding Spadafora's murder, Noriega was
convicted in absentia by a Panamanian court in 1993.
The 
New York Times
, in a June 1986 story that first
exposed Noriega as a drug dealer and money launderer,
cited Spadafora's murder as an example of why U.S.
government officials were growing tired of the tyrant.
"Officials in the Reagan Administration and past
Administrations said in interviews that they had overlooked
General Noriega's illegal activities because of his
cooperation with American intelligence," the story said.
"They said, for example, that General Noriega had been a
valuable asset to Washington in countering insurgencies in
Central America and was now cooperating with the Central
Intelligence Agency in providing sensitive information from
Nicaragua."
But the 
Times
 story left unaddressed a rather obvious
question: why would a cunning political strategist like
Noriega take the risky step of having the popular
Spadafora, Panama's former vice minister of public health,
kidnapped by government security men in full view of
dozens of witnesses, and decapitated?
The answer, which may be the reason the 
Times
sidestepped the issue, involved drugs and the CIA. When

===== PDF PAGE 353 =====
Noriega's goons hauled Spadafora off a bus at the
Panamanian border, he was on his way to Panama City,
where he intended to publicly release evidence of
Noriega's cocaine-smuggling activities—activities that also
involved the Contras in Costa Rica. Before leaving for
Panama, Spadafora had excitedly told friends that he now
had the proof he needed to document the dictator's
participation in cocaine trafficking, and he was convinced
that the revelations would sink the tyrant.
In the months before his murder, the doctor had
befriended a drug and arms smuggler who once ran
Noriega's drug operation, Floyd Carlton Caceres. Carlton,
who also served as Noriega's personal pilot, began
confiding in Spadafora, sharing intimate details of
Noriega's drug trade. "Dr. Spadafora was a very honest
man," Carlton said. "He was an idealist and he tried to get
the best for anyone needing justice."
If anyone needed justice right then, it was Floyd Carlton.
The smuggler was lying low, trying to avoid a hit man
Colombian dealers had sent after him. Carlton had lost
$1.8 million in cash the Colombians had entrusted to him to
fly from Los Angeles to their banks in Panama City. Since
he was too busy to do it himself, he'd delegated the task to
an underling, who later turned up in Miami, sans cash.
"I had to pay that money," Carlton said, which he agreed
to do by flying a drug load north for free. But again, he'd
sent someone else to fly the mission, one of his partners,
Teofilo Watson. Watson had never returned, disappearing
with 530 kilos of cocaine. Now the Colombians were really
angry.
"They thought I had agreed or made a plan with Mr.
Watson to steal the drug," Carlton said. Carlton suspected
that Costa Rican Contra leader Sebastian "Guachan"

===== PDF PAGE 354 =====
Gonzalez and his strange M-3 Contra group had done
Watson in, leading him into an ambush at an airstrip owned
by the local CIA man, John Hull. "They killed him and then
took the airplane and the drugs to Mr. Hull's ranch," Carlton
testified. The plane was cut up and thrown into a river that
ran through Hull's property, and the cocaine was spirited to
the United States, where it may have been traded for
weapons.
The Colombians sent a hired killer named Alberto
Aldimar out to find Carlton and the cocaine. Aldimar started
by kidnapping Carlton's friends and employees and
slapping them around. One of his relatives, Carlton said,
"was brutally beaten." Then the power shovels arrived and
began digging up Carlton's ranch. "They spent weeks there
looking for some type of metal and found nothing," he said.
Next the Colombians kidnapped the daughter of the
Contras' CIA liaison, John Hull, on whose ranch the theft
supposedly had taken place. Hull ransomed the girl back
unharmed and blamed it on the Communists.
After that, Carlton bolted Central America altogether and
took refuge in Miami, the U.S. headquarters of his cocaine
transportation network. That's where Spadafora found him,
in hiding. "He was trying to unmask Noriega and he was
successful in obtaining truth that could imperil Noriega,"
Carlton later testified.
That in large part was due to Carlton, who would later
astonish DEA officials with his photographic recall of
Noriega's drug deals. Carlton eventually became the U.S.
government's star witness against the Panamanian dictator
at his trial on drug charges. The pilot gave Spadafora the
names of other pilots involved and the dates of specific-
drug flights through Costa Rica. He also implicated
Noriega's high school buddy, "Guachan" Gonzalez, who

===== PDF PAGE 355 =====
was then hiding out in Panama from a Costa Rican cocaine
indictment.
When he was finished, Carlton said, Spadafora
announced, "I am going to have a bomb explode in
Panama. I am going to set it off with all this information
which I have." Hurrying back to Costa Rica, Spadafora
began sharing his discoveries with law enforcement and
intelligence officials, which may have been his worst
mistake.
News of Spadafora's visit to the DEA's offices in San
Jose was quickly relayed back to CIA headquarters in
Langley, which was informed that "Hugo Spadafora had
made vague allegations to DEA. . .that [Guachan]
Gonzalez, Manuel Noriega and [another Contra leader]
were engaged in drug trafficking. The chief of the local
DEA office [Robert Nieves] met Spadafora twice and. .
.Spadafora had promised that he would provide evidence
of drug trafficking by Gonzalez."
If Nieves needed a way to confirm the doctor's explosive
claims, he had just the man for the job—his deep-cover
informant Norwin Meneses. In addition to Meneses's
connections within the Contras, the trafficker was a close
friend and trafficking partner of the Contra official
Spadafora was trying to unmask, "Guachan" Gonzalez.
Somehow Meneses's lieutenants got wind of what
Spadafora was planning, and they began devising a
counterattack. During their investigation of Meneses aide
Horacio Pereira, the Costa Rican police taped Gonzalez
and Pereira discussing Spadafora's probe and plotting
ways to silence him. The Costa Rican newspaper 
La
Nacion
 obtained copies of the tapes and printed partial
transcripts. One ploy Gonzalez and Pereira batted around
was paying a witness in Guanacaste Province between

===== PDF PAGE 356 =====
$200,000 and $300,000 falsely accuse Spadafora of drug
trafficking and exonerate Gonzalez of his pending Costa
Rican drug charges.
"Now he's surrounded because if he comes over here,
he's finished," Gonzalez confidently told Pereira in a phone
call from Panama.
"Yes," Pereira replied. "If he shows up over there, you'll
get him."
The district attorney in the Panamanian province where
Spadafora was murdered ordered Gonzalez arrested in
1990 for allegedly offering to pay someone to kill the
doctor, but no charges were filed, and Gonzalez was
quickly released. He has strenuously denied any
involvement in Spadafora's death, but Spadafora's family
remains convinced Gonzalez played a major role.
Though Noriega apparently felt the information
Spadafora possessed was important enough to kill him
over, DEA official Robert Nieves had a very different
reaction. He told 
La Nacion
 that his discussions with
Spadafora were "not important" and said he did nothing
with the information the doctor had risked his life to bring
him. Since Noriega's drug dealing was the official reason
the United States invaded Panama four years later,
Nieves's professed inaction is astounding. But it would not
be out of character for the DEA at that time.
Floyd Carlton testified that he got the same cold shoulder
from the DEA office in Panama City when he tried telling
them about Noriega's drug dealing in January 1986. "I did
actually make contact with intelligence agents in the United
States Embassy in Panama," Carlton related. "And I
asked, 'Have you not heard my name?' And they said, 'Yes,
we have.' And so I said, 'On different occasions I have sent
people to speak to you so that you interview me. But you

===== PDF PAGE 357 =====
have always told them that you have nothing to talk to me
about. And the fact is that I believe that I can go before the
American judicial system and speak of a lot of things that
are happening in this country, and I can even prove them.'
"So they asked, 'Such as what?' So, I said, 'Money
laundering, drugs, weapons, corruption, assassinations.'
When I mentioned the name of General Noriega, they
immediately became upset." Carlton said the DEA agents
"did not try to contact me again. And the only thing that I
asked for was protection for myself and my family. And at
that time I had no problems with the American justice
system."
Judging from the DEA's response to a Freedom of
Information Act request, Nieves took a similarly incurious
stance when his informant turned up with his head missing.
Apparently, none of the DEA's Costa Rican agents ever
looked into the doctor's gruesome death. All the agency
had on Spadafora, it claimed, was a couple of paragraphs
culled from Panamanian newspaper stories written a year
after the murder.
The CIA's reaction was even more bizarre. Its Costa
Rican station chief, Joe Fernandez, helped Noriega plant
false media reports about who really killed Hugo
Spadafora.
Jose Blandón, then Noriega's consul general in New
York, told Congress that he and Noriega discussed
Spadafora's murder a few weeks after the body was found,
during a long flight home from New York aboard the
dictator's private Lear Jet. Noriega, who'd been in France
when Spadafora was killed, wanted an update on how the
public was reacting to the killing, the diplomat said.
"Especially, he was interested in the developments
regarding a witness whose name is Hoffman, a witness of

===== PDF PAGE 358 =====
German origin who appeared on Panamanian television
saying that he knew who had killed Spadafora and publicly
said that Spadafora had been killed by the FMLN [leftist
guerrillas] of El Salvador," Blandón testified.
The German, Manfred Hoffman, "was a witness who was
created by Noriega, and he was obtained through the CIA
operating in Costa Rica," Blandón testified. "He is a
specialist in electronics and he worked for the CIA in some
cases." Blandón, describing the episode as "an absurd
farce," said he told Noriega "nobody believed that story."
A month after Spadafora's killing, Noriega's men
contacted the CIA and asked for help in "defusing an effort
by family members of slain rebel Hugo Spadafora to
implicate Manuel Antonio Noriega in drug trafficking." The
CIA cable discussed putting Gonzalez on a popular
morning radio talk show to discredit Spadafora's brother,
who was trying to obtain Costa Rican documents
implicating the Contra commander as a drug dealer.
According to a handwritten note on the CIA cable, brother
Winston was barking up the right tree: "If the truth be told,"
someone had written, "we had reason to believe that
Gonzalez has been involved in drugs about a yr, 1 ½ yrs
ago."
Actually, it was longer than that. A CIA contract agent had
first reported on Gonzalez's drug dealings in October 1983,
after Spadafora had informed him that "Noriega was
smuggling drugs with the Contras and that Gonzalez was
involved." The agent said his CIA supervisor simply
"replied that CIA had heard some rumors of drug trafficking
involving the Contras."
Unfortunately for Spadafora's wife and family, the good
doctor had the bad luck of being murdered at a politically
inconvenient time. It was in no one's interests right then—

===== PDF PAGE 359 =====
Noriega's or the U.S. government's—to delve too deeply
into the crime for fear of what would be exposed: the
apparent complicity of two CIA assets—Noriega and
Gonzalez—in the murder of someone trying to expose
government drug trafficking.
At that point the Reagan administration was nuzzling up
to Noriega as it had never done before, frantically
searching for ways around the 1984 congressional ban on
CIA support to the Contras. For months, a steady stream of
high-ranking visitors from Washington had been paying
courtesy calls to the despot, reminding him of how much
Uncle Sam liked and needed him.
In June 1985, aboard a luxurious yacht anchored in the
Pacific port of Balboa, North and Noriega struck a very
important bargain, said Jose Blandón, who attended the
meeting. "Colonel North was interested in gaining
Panama's support for the Contras and he particularly
requested training assistance in bases located in
Panama," Blandón told Congress in 1988. "General
Noriega promised to provide training in specific locations
to members of the Contras, training to be provided at
bases located in Panama." He was also willing to allow
Contra leaders free access to the country, and made it
clear to North that he was willing to do much, much more.
According to government documents filed during North's
trial, Noriega offered to have the entire Sandinista
leadership assassinated in exchange for "a promise from
the U.S. government to help clean up Noriega's image."
North raised the proposal at a top level meeting in
Washington and made it clear that "Noriega had the
capabilities that he had proffered." North was instructed to
tell Noriega that the administration wasn't keen on
murdering Nicaraguan government officials, but that

===== PDF PAGE 360 =====
Panamanian assistance with sabotage would be another
story.
A month after Spadafora's body was found under the
bridge, North went back to Panama for another visit, this
time to assure the dictator that the U.S. government would
be boosting Noriega's foreign aid payments. Within a year
an additional $200 million in U.S. taxpayer funds and bank
loans was sent his way.
Meanwhile, a former staffer on the National Security
Council, Dr. Norman A. Bailey, was frantically trying to alert
various high-ranking government officials to the fact that
Noriega was in bed with drug traffickers and other
criminals. Bailey, the NSC's former director of planning,
had discovered that Panamanian banks were taking in
billions of dollars in $50 and $100 bills, money that Bailey
concluded could only have come from criminal activities.
Bailey set off on a quixotic quest to persuade the
Reagan administration to distance itself from Noriega,
pressing his reports into the hands of Reagan's top
advisers, including national security adviser Admiral John
Poindexter. "I took the initiative myself after the murder of
Dr. Spadafora," Bailey testified. "As far as I know, the only
thing that actually took place was that Admiral Poindexter
added Panama to a trip he was making to Central America
in December of 1985."
But Poindexter's meeting with Noriega was hardly what
Norman Bailey had envisioned. According to Jose
Blandón, who was in attendance, Poindexter did bring up
the Spadafora murder, but only to give Noriega some
friendly advice on how to handle it; Poindexter "spoke of
the need to have a group of officers be sent abroad,
outside of Panama, while the situation changed and the
attitudes changed regarding Spadafora's assassination."

===== PDF PAGE 361 =====
Noriega met CIA director William Casey after that, again
to discuss his help for the Contras. According to a Senate
subcommittee report, Casey decided not to raise the
allegations of Noriega's cocaine trafficking with him "on the
ground that Noriega was providing valuable support for our
policies in Central America."
While all of this official ring-kissing was going on, Oliver
North and the CIA were quietly knitting parts of Noriega's
drug transportation system into the Contras' lines of supply
—and hiring drug smugglers to make Contra supply flights
for them.
At the time of his visits with Noriega, North was firmly in
control of the Contra project, having been handed the ball
personally by CIA director Casey. Far from being the
dopey, gap-toothed zealot portrayed by the Reagan
administration and the press, North was one of the most
powerful men in Washington. "The spring of 1985, he was
the top gun," testified Alan Fiers, the CIA's Central
American Task Force chief and North's liaison at Langley.
"He was the top player in the NSC as well. And there was
no doubt that he was—he was driving the process, driving
the policy."
Former Iran-Contra special prosecutor Lawrence Walsh,
who indicted and convicted North on a variety of felonies,
suspects the Marine officer was a cutout for the CIA, a
human lightning rod to keep the agency from becoming
directly involved in illegal activities. "The CIA had continued
as the agency overseeing U.S. undercover activities in
support of the Contras after the Boland amendments were
enacted," Walsh wrote in his memoirs. "The CIA's strategy
determined what North would do."
In a city where information is power, North had access to
the nation's deepest secrets, subjects so highly classified

===== PDF PAGE 362 =====
even top CIA officials didn't know about them. "He told me
in 1985 that there was [sic] two squadrons of Stealth
bombers operational in Arizona and I just thought he was
crazy," Fiers testified. "It was the, one of the greatest
secrets the government had and then all of a sudden we, in
fact, ended up with two squadrons of Stealth bombers
operational. And there were many, many other instances
when he told me things, and I thought they were totally
fanciful and, in fact, turned out to be absolute truth."
One of the many surprises North had for Fiers was the
fact that he had received specialized training usually
reserved for CIA officers. During one late-night
conversation about the Contra supply operation in Costa
Rica, Fiers testified, North blurted out that he had "put
together a whole cascade of cover companies, 'just like
they taught us at the CIA clandestine training site.' And I
thought that was pretty interesting because I went there and
I didn't learn how to put together a whole cascade of
companies. And 1 also didn't know that Ollie North had
gone down to the training site."
Savvy bureaucrats in Washington knew North was not
someone to be taken lightly. Fiers called him "a power
figure in the government. . .a force to be reckoned with."
When he asked for something, people jumped. When he
gave orders, they were followed. "Ollie North had the ability
to work down in my chain of command and to cause [it] to
override me if and when I didn't do something," Fiers
testified. "And, I would like to add, subsequently I saw that
happen in other ways, other places and other agencies."
Fiers's boss at the CIA, Clair E. George, echoed that. "I
suffer from the bureaucrat's disease, that when people call
me and say, 'I am calling from the White House for the
National Security Council on behalf of the national security

===== PDF PAGE 363 =====
advisor,' I am inclined to snap to."
CIA Costa Rican station chief Joe Fernandez was more
blunt. "To a GS-15, this guy talks to God, right?" Fernandez
said of North during a secret congressional hearing in
1987. "Obviously, I knew where he worked in the Executive
Office Building. He has got tremendous access. . .. I mean,
North is not some ordinary American citizen that is
suddenly in this position. This is a man who had dealings
with, obviously, the Director of the CIA. . .. You know, he
deals with my division chief."
North was even telling U.S. ambassadors what to do.
In July 1985, before taking his new job as ambassador to
Costa Rica, Lewis Tambs said North sat him down and
gave him his marching orders. "Colonel North asked me to
go down and open up the Southern Front," Tambs told the
Iran-Contra committees. "We would encourage the
freedom fighters to fight. And the war was in Nicaragua.
The war was not in Costa Rica, and so that is what I
understood my instructions were."
But with the CIA's billions officially banned from the
scene, North had a big problem if he was going to get the
Contras out of their Costa Rican border sanctuaries and
into Nicaragua to do some actual fighting.
He had no way to supply them; the CIA had been doing
all that.
It takes tons of material to sustain an army in the field,
particularly one that is going to be warring deep inside
enemy territory, separated by days from its supply depots.
The CIA had plenty of experience handling such
complicated logistical problems, but North didn't. It was a
problem he took up with his friends at Langley, who,
according to CIA official Fiers, "spent major time, major
effort" trying to come up with a solution.

===== PDF PAGE 364 =====
"Air resupply of the Contras was the key," Fiers testified.
"We had a 15,000-man army of guerrillas operating in
Nicaragua and had to supply them. All of the supply went by
air. They carried in what—their boots and their clothes, and
then their new ammunition and such had to be dropped in
by air. So the success or failure turned on air resupply
operations."
One of the vehicles North selected to handle that chore
was a new unit set up inside the U.S. State Department
called the Nicaraguan Humanitarian Assistance Office
(NHAO). The office was officially created in mid-1985 to
oversee the delivery of $27 million in "humanitarian" aid
Congress agreed to give the Contras, under considerable
pressure from the White House.
North and the CIA first tried to get the operation placed
inside the National Security Council, where it would be free
from public scrutiny and North could control it directly, but
that move failed. Instead, Fiers said, North simply
"hijacked" it from the State Department. In November 1985
he pressured the NHAO to hire one of his aides as a
consultant, a tall, blond former L.A. prep school counselor
named Robert W Owen. A Stanford University grad and
onetime advertising executive, Owen idolized North. Since
1984 he had been, in his own words, North's "trusted
courier" in Central America, zigzagging through the war
zones for Ollie, listening to the concerns of Contra officials,
setting up arms deals, and solving problems.
Owen's work had drawn rave reviews from his CIA
contacts. "That man has all of the attributes that we want in
our officers," Costa Riean station chief Fernandez told
Congress during a 1987 hearing. "I met with him on a
number of occasions. . .introduced him to one of my
officers who regularly met with him when he was in town."

===== PDF PAGE 365 =====
Fernandez said his superiors were "so impressed with Mr.
Owen that he was being considered as a possible
applicant for the clandestine service."
Owen, in 1989 court testimony, admitted that "there was
a possibility that I might have gone with the CIA on
contract."
But because Owen was a private citizen, Fernandez
said, he couldn't legally send him out on intelligence-
gathering missions. He could listen when Owen reported
back but couldn't, in CIA jargon, "task" him. But that all
changed once Owen began working for the NHAO, which
probably explains North's insistence that Owen be hired.
"When he did that, then we did have a much more
operational relationship," Fernandez confirmed. "Because
then he was a government employee, I did ask him to find
out things."
NHAO director Robert Duemling and his aides couldn't
figure out why they needed to have Rob Owen around, and
initially they rebuffed North's suggestions. "I certainly didn't
see the necessity for a middleman," Duemling testified in a
once-secret deposition to the Iran-Contra committees. But
North kept pushing. Duemling said North had Contra
leaders write letters demanding Owen's hiring, and he
lobbied Duemling's superior at the State Department,
Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams, a fervent
Contra supporter. After one stormy meeting with North and
Abrams, Duemling said, "Elliott Abrams turned to me and
said, 'Well, Bob, I suppose you probably ought to hire
Owen.' Well, in bureaucratic terms the jig was up, since I
was the only person who was speaking out against this."
Owen was given a $50,000 contract as a "facilitator," a
job that mystified Duemling's aide, Chris Arcos. Arcos
testified that no one was "sure what, in fact, Rob Owen

===== PDF PAGE 366 =====
could do or bring or offer to the office that we couldn't do.
He didn't have much Spanish, he didn't have an expertise in
medical or anything like that."
The minutes of that November 1985 meeting show that
for some reason, Abrams and North were extremely
concerned about the fallout if someone discovered Owen's
involvement with the NIIAO, and they began working on a
cover story to explain his presence there in case it leaked.
"Abrams and North agreed that Owen will be expendable if
he becomes a political or diplomatic liability," the minutes
state. If that happened, Congress would be told that he was
"an experiment that hadn't worked out."
It was an experiment right out of Dr. Erankenstcin's lab.
Rob Owen's mission was to serve as the CIA's unofficial
liaison to the drug traffickers and other undesirables who
were helping the Contras in Costa Rica, people who were
too dirty for the CIA to deal with directly. Like North, he was
another "cutout." "He probably had the most extensive
network of contacts among the resistance leaders," CIA
station chief Fernandez testified in 1987, "including people
with whom we did not want to have contact with and who,
however, were involved with the Nicaraguan resistance."
The untouchables Fernandez was referring to were the
Cuban anti-Communists in Costa Rica—the rough mix of
mercenaries, bombers, assassins, and drug dealers
recruited in Miami by UDN-FARN commander Fernando
"El Negro" Chamorro and CIA agent Ernesto Cruche. The
agency, Fernandez testified, was "very leery of these
people. I lowever, Rob Owen had an entree to them."
And now, thanks to his NHAO job, he had an official
entree—as an operational CIA asset. Owen's specific
assignment, in fact, put him directly over the drug traffickers
Fernandez and the CIA didn't want to be seen with.

===== PDF PAGE 367 =====
He was assigned to "monitor" an NHAO contract with a
Costa Rican shrimp company called Frigorificos de
Puntarenas, S.A. This consisted of a small fleet of fishing
boats based in the humid Pacific Coast village of
Puntarenas, and an import company in Miami called Ocean
Hunter, which brought Frigorificos' catch into the United
States. In reality, however, it was "a firm owned and
operated by Cuban-American drug traffickers," according
to a 1988 Senate subcommittee report.
That conclusion was based partly on the congressional
testimony of former Medellín cartel accountant Ramon
Milian Rodriguez, a suave Cuban-American who was the
cartel's money-laundering wizard until his arrest in Miami in
1983, when he and $5 million in cash were taken off a Lear
jet bound for Panama. Frigorificos, he testified, was one of
an interlocking chain of companies he'd created to launder
the torrents of cash that were pouring into the cartel's
coffers from its worldwide cocaine sales. Drug money
would go into one company and come out of another
through a series of intercompany transactions, clean and
ready to be banked or invested. In 1982, Frigorificos was
taken over by a group of major Miami-based drug
traffickers, who began using it to help the Contras.
"Were payments or arrangements made by which the
Contras could receive money through Frigorificos?"
Senator John Kerry asked Milian during a Senate
subcommittee hearing in 1987.
"Yes sir," the accountant answered.
"You arranged that?"
"I, through my intermediaries, made it possible."
"Was any of the money that you provided Frigorificos
traceable to drugs or to drug-related transactions?" Kerry
asked.

===== PDF PAGE 368 =====
"No, sir."
"Why was that?"
"Because," said Milian, "we were experts at what we
do."

===== PDF PAGE 369 =====
"El Rey de la Droga" (The King of Drugs), Norwin Meneses
Cantarero, during an interview with the author and Georg
Hodel at Tipitapa Prison outside Managua in 1996. 
PHOTO
BY GARY wEBB

===== PDF PAGE 370 =====
FDN supporter Don Sinicco snapped this picture in his
kitchen in San Francisco during a cocktail party he was
hosting for CIA agent Adolfo Calero, center. Drug lord
Norwin Meneses is on the far right. The other men are local
Contra supporters. At the time this photo was taken, June
1984, Meneses was engaged in a cocaine smuggling
conspiracy, according to federal prosecutors. 
PHOTO
COURTESY OF DON SINICCO

===== PDF PAGE 371 =====
Danilo Blandón, circa 1995.

===== PDF PAGE 372 =====
ABC Park and Fly, near the Miami International Airport.
Blandón established his car rental company in this building
during his brief "retirement" from the cocaine business in
1987. The day this picture was taken Anastasio Somoza's
former counterinsurgency expert, Maj. Gen. Gustavo "El
Tigre" Medina, was working behind the counter. 
PHOTO BY
GARY WEBB

===== PDF PAGE 373 =====
Enrique Miranda Jaime, shortly after the FBI kidnapped
him in Miami and sent him back to Nicaragua to face
escape charges in late 1996. Miranda, a former double
agent for the CIA and the Sandinistas, was Meneses's top
aide after the war and would later help send his boss to
prison. 
PHOTO BY GARY WEBB

===== PDF PAGE 374 =====
Former Contra cocaine courier Carlos Cabezas, at his law
office in Managua. 
PHOTO BY GARY WEBB

===== PDF PAGE 375 =====
The Oval Office, August 5, 1987. A gathering of Nicaraguan
resistance leaders to mark yet another CIA-inspired
merger of the Contra armies from the FDN to the United
Nicaraguan Opposition (UNO). Second from left is
Aristides Sanchez. Adolfo Calero is on the far right.
COURTESY OF THE RONALD REAGAN LIBRARY

===== PDF PAGE 376 =====
The Oval Office, April 4, 1985. From left: CIA agent Adolfo
Calero, political boss of the FDN; Lt. Col. Oliver North and
President Ronald Reagan, after the CIA handed off the
day-to-day management of the Contra project to North and
the National Security Council. 
COURTESY OF THE RONALD REAGAN
LIBRARY

===== PDF PAGE 377 =====
L.A. crack kingpin "Freeway" Ricky Ross was all smiles as
he was released from a Texas prison in 1994 after serving
a short stint for cocaine trafficking. Though he had vowed to
go straight, a few months later he would be lured back into
the drug business by his old friend and cocaine supplier,
Danilo Blandón. 
ROBERT GAUTHIER/LOS ANGELES TIMES

===== PDF PAGE 378 =====
Ricky Ross was captured March 2, 1995 in National City
after his truck careened into a hedgerow. 
PHOTO BY GARY WEBB

===== PDF PAGE 379 =====
Part of the $160,000 seized by the DEA from crack dealer
Leroy "Chico" Brown during the 1995 sting that snared
"Freeway" Ricky Ross. 
DEA PHOTO

===== PDF PAGE 380 =====
Ricky Donnell Ross, shortly before he was sentenced to life
in prison without the possibility of parole in October 1996.
ROBERT GAUTHIER/LOS ANGELES TIMES

===== PDF PAGE 381 =====
Milian, a graduate of Santa Clara University in Silicon
Valley, told Kerry's committee that he used the firm to
launder a $10 million donation from the Medellín cartel to
the Contras, a donation he said was arranged by and paid
to a former CIA agent, Cuban Felix Rodriguez. Kerry's
committee didn't believe that tale, especially after Milian
flunked a lie detector test on the question.
But during the drug trafficking trial of Manuel Noriega
several years later, one of the government's star witnesses,
former Medellí;n cartel transportation boss Carlos Lehder,
confirmed under oath that the cartel 
had
 given the Contras
$10 million, just as Milian had testified. Lehder said he
arranged for the donation himself.
Contra leader Adolfo Calero has always denied the
Contras received such a sum, but Calero is hardly a
credible source when it comes to Contra fund-raising. I le
denied for many years that the Contras ever got money
from the CIA, or assistance from Oliver North.
The FBI first picked up word of Frigorificos' involvement
with drugs in September 1984, while the CIA was still
running the Contra program. An investigation of a 1983
bombing of a Miami bank had led police and FBI agents
into the murky underworld of Miami's Cuban anti-
Communist groups, who were suspected of blowing up the
bank.
Miami police questioned the president of the Cuban
Legion, Jose Coutin, who told them what he knew of the
bombing and then unloaded some unexpected information
about the Contras and drugs, naming a host of Cuban CIA
operatives and Bay of Pigs veterans he said were working
for the Contras in Costa Rica. One drug dealer Coutin
named was Francisco Chanes, whom Coutin said "was

===== PDF PAGE 382 =====
giving financial support to anti-Castro groups and the
Nicaraguan Contra guerrillas. The monies come from
narcotic transactions." lie identified Chanes as one of the
owners of Ocean Hunter, the sister company of Frigorificos.
The Miami cops quickly turned the information over to the
FBI, records show.
Coutin's statements were corroborated years later by
former drug pilot Fabio Ernesto Carrasco, who admitted
flying cocaine and weapons loads for the Contras in 1984
and 1985. As a U.S. government witness, Carraseo
testified that Frigorificos was being used by the Contras
during the war as a front to bring cocaine into the United
States to finance the war effort.
"To make sure I understand, is this company Frigorificos
de Puntarenas in any way involved in drug trafficking?"
defense attorney Richard "Racehorse" Haynes asked
Carrasco during a 1990 drug trial in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
"That's correct."
"In what way was it involved?"
"As I have said, they would load cocaine inside the
containers which were being shipped loaded with
vegetables and fruit to the United States," Carraseo said.
"Did this company have a role in your drug operations
dealing with the Contras and the weapons that you believed
to be involved with the CIA?"
"It did in my opinion," the pilot testified.
So how could a company started by the Medellín cartel
and used as a front to run drugs into America ever wind up
with a contract from the U.S. State Department's
Nicaraguan Humanitarian Assistance Office?
Through Rob Owen and the CIA, court records show.
"The people that were involved in Ocean Hunter in Costa
Rica were ones that had been helpful to the cause," Owen

===== PDF PAGE 383 =====
testified in a 1988 civil deposition. He identified those
helpful souls as Frank Chanes, the Miami Cuban who was
reported to the FBI as a drug trafficker in 1984, and Moises
Nunez, another Bay of Pigs veteran who was suspected by
Interpol of being a drug trafficker as well as an intelligence
operative.
Another man involved with Frigorificos was the exiled
Nicaraguan lawyer Francisco Aviles Saenz, the CIA asset
who claimed the $36,000 police had seized during the
investigation of the Frogman case in San Francisco in
1983 belonged to the Contras. On several occasions
Aviles, the brother-in-law of Meneses's lieutenant Horacio
Percira, notarized affidavits submitted by the shrimp
company to obtain payment from the State Department,
records show.
Owen claimed the shrimp company was used mainly for
its international bank accounts, serving as one of several
Central American "brokers" for the humanitarian aid money
going to the Contras on the Southern Front. In all, more than
$260,000 in U.S. taxpayer funds flowed through
Frigorificos's bank accounts during 1986.
"We needed an account in Miami that the [State
Department] money could be deposited to. [There were]
constant financial transactions between Miami and Costa
Rica, between Frank Chanes and Moises Nunez. They had
been helpful and supportive of the cause. They were willing
to do it," Owen testified. "I felt that they were honest and
that the money would go where it was supposed to go."
Where it ended up is anybody's guess. Some of the
money paid Frigorificos, bank records show, was wired out
in never-explained transfers to banks in Israel and South
Korea. When the U.S. General Accounting Office audited
the NHAO's "broker" accounts, it was unable to trace most

===== PDF PAGE 384 =====
of the money. Of $4.4 million that went into the accounts,
less than $1 million could be accounted for, and much of
that was in payoffs to Honduran military officials. The rest
was traced to offshore banks and then disappeared.
Owen insisted that the traffickers at Frigorificos had
been cleared by the CIA and presumably the FBI. "U.S.
intelligence sources were involved in Costa Rica to provide
a check and a balance on this. They would be
knowledgeable, they knew the lay of the ground. I thought it
important and appropriate to talk with them," Owen
testified. "To the best of my knowledge, I talked to U.S.
intelligence officials regarding Moises Nunez. I believe I
would have asked about Frank Chanes as well."
In addition, Owen said, "their names were given to
NHAO and it was my understanding that any account that
NHAO provided funds to was checked through the FBI. The
FBI was informed who was being used as a banker. Now,
whether they did any check on it or not, I'm not sure. I guess
I assume that they did."
The director of the NHAO testified that the FBI never
answered his letters of inquiry.
"So, is it fair to say, then, that you were the one that
suggested these gentlemen be utilized?" Owen was asked
during a deposition.
"It is fair to say. . .in consultation with U.S. intelligence
officials," Owen replied. Owen refused to identify them
further, other than to say that it was "someone who works
for the CIA."
One reason the CIA gave Frigorificos a clean bill of
health may have been because its Costa Rican manager,
Moises Nunez, was a CIA agent. John Hull, the CIA's Costa
Rican liaison with the Contras, confirmed in an interview
that Nunez was working with the agency as an intelligence

===== PDF PAGE 385 =====
source, and a 1988 UPI story said Nunez was "identified as
an Agency officer by two senior Costa Rican government
officials, a U.S. intelligence source, and American law
enforcement authorities."
In addition to distributing State Department money to the
Costa Rican Contras, Nunez was also permitting
Frigorifieos to be used by North and CIA station chief
Fernandez as a cover for a secret maritime operation they
were running against the Sandinistas, records show.
In February 1986, one of the Cubans working with North
in Costa Rica, a longtime CIA contract agent named Felipe
Vidal, devised a plan for a "small, professionally managed
rebel naval force" that would serve as a supply line for the
Contras, an intelligence-gathering operation, and a
transportation unit "to infiltrate into the [Nicaraguan]
mainland rebel cadres for specific missions."
Vidal recommended using a Costa Rican shrimp
company as "a front" and getting two shrimp boats to act
as motherships and to gather intelligence. "These boats
could be acquired from U.S. government auctions," Vidal
wrote, noting that "existing connections with a high-ranking
official in the DEA would facilitate the purchase of said
boats. The cost of these boats, with cooperation from the
DEA, could come to as low as $10,000 per boat." CIA
records show that Vidal was employed by Frigorificos at
the time he proposed this scheme.
Vidal's "existing connections" with a top DEA official are
fascinating, considering the Cuban's shady background.
Vidal's criminal history "reflects an assortment of assault,
robbery, narcotics, and firearms violations," the CIA
Inspector General wrote, and included a 1971 drug
conviction and a 1977 arrest for conspiracy to sell
marijuana. Former CIA official Alan Fiers admits being

===== PDF PAGE 386 =====
aware of Vidal's "record of misbehavior and general
thuggery" but claims he didn't know the Cuban was a
convicted drug trafficker. The following month, Owen
informed North that "the first hard intelligence mission
inside by boat has taken place and the people arc now
out." He said five small boats were being constructed and
"a safe house [in Costa Rica] has been rented on a river,
which flows into the ocean."
"Moises Nunez, a Cuban who has a shrimping business
in Punteranous [sic] is fronting the operation," Owen wrote
North. "He is willing to have an American come work for
him under cover to advise the operation. . .. If we can get
two shrimp boats, Nunez is willing to front a shrimping
operation on the Atlantic coast. These boats can be used
as motherships. I brought this up awhile ago and you
agreed and gave me the name of a DEA person who might
help with the boats."
In other words, in early 1986 the DEA was being asked
to provide cheap oceangoing vessels to a company started
by the Medellín cartel, run by drug traffickers, for espionage
missions planned and fronted by drug traffickers.
The identity of Vidal's high-ranking DEA contact was not
divulged, nor is it known whether the agency ever provided
the boats, but records show the maritime operation was
going strong in April 1986 and would soon be running
"several trips a week," according to a memo Owen sent to
North. Curiously, the Iran-Contra investigations barely
looked at this clandestine operation, which was a clear
violation of the Boland Amendment since, according to
Owen, it directly involved CIA station chief Joe Fernandez.
Despite his background, Moises Nunez also maintained
a chummy relationship with antidrug agencies, both
American and Costa Rican. "Nunez got to be known by our

===== PDF PAGE 387 =====
authorities as a collaborator of the DEA and of other police
bodies," said a 1989 Costa Rican prosecutor's report,
adding that the Cuban carried credentials from the Costa
Rican Ministry of Public Safety's Department of Narcotics,
provided funds and vehicles for an antidrug unit, and went
out on raids with them, though his effectiveness was
somewhat questionable. The report said he blew a four-
month investigation of a Colombian drug ring by making a
"premature" arrest.
Most of this strange activity was occurring with the
knowledge and apparent approval of CIA station chief
Fernandez and other CIA agents in Costa Rica, records
indicate. Fernandez admitted to the Iran-Contra
committees that he knew Nunez and knew he was meeting
with Owen to discuss Contra operations. Fernandez was
asked if he knew that Nunez claimed to have met North, but
his answer was classified for reasons of national security.
Nunez, however, shed light on that question when the CIA
interrogated him in March 1987 about allegations that he'd
been dealing drugs in Costa Rica through his shrimp
company, Frigorificos. Thanks to a DEA seizure, the CIA
already knew that Nunez's partners in that firm were behind
a 414-pound cocaine load shipped to Miami in January
1986 amidst crates of yucca.
"Nunez revealed that since 1985, he had engaged in a
clandestine relationship with the National Security Council
[NSC]," the CIA Inspector General reported. "Nunez
refused to elaborate on the nature of these actions but
indicated it was difficult to answer questions relating to his
involvement in narcotics trafficking because of the specific
tasks he had performed at the direction of the NSC."
Instead of following up on this eyebrow-raising answer,
CIA headquarters ordered an immediate halt to Nunez's

===== PDF PAGE 388 =====
questioning. "The Agency position was not to get involved
in this matter and to turn it over to others because it had
nothing to do with the Agency, but with the National Security
Council," former CIA officer Louis Dupart reasoned in an
interview with the CIA Inspector General. "That's all we had
to do. It was someone else's problem." That "someone"
was harried Iran-Contra prosecutor Lawrence Walsh, upon
whom every potential allegation of drug trafficking by the
Contras was dumped by the CIA and the Reagan
Administration. Of course, Walsh had neither the time nor
the authority to look into most of those leads and the CIA
refused to cooperate on the few occasions when he did
ask some questions. Therefore he made an excellent
scapegoat in case anyone wondered why tips about drug
dealing by the NSC and the Contras were never
investigated. "We turned it over to Lawrence Walsh,"
became the Agency's standard reply.
Former CIA official Alan Fiers, who ran the Contra
project at the time, confirmed that Nunez's questioning was
stopped "because of the NSC connection and the
possibility that this could be somehow connected to
[North's] Private Benefactor program, otherwise known as
the Iran-Contra affair."
The CIA made the same decision when a security check
on the CIA's logistics advisor to the Costa Rican Contras,
Cuban mercenary Felipe Vidal, discovered evidence of
drug running.
"Narcotics trafficking relative to Contra-related activities
is exactly the sort of thing that the U.S. Attorney's Office will
be investigating," CIA attorney Gary Chase worried in an
August 1987 memo. Chase "expressed concern over the
possibility that the security process. . .could be exposed
during any future litigation." Vidal's security check was shut

===== PDF PAGE 389 =====
down.
But the Agency's conduct was far worse than simply
burying its head in the sand. For years afterward, it
shielded both Dago Nunez and Felipe Vidal from criminal
investigations into drug trafficking and money laundering.
At various times, the CIA told U.S. Customs and the DEA
that it had no information about Nunez's trafficking
activities. The CIA's Directorate of Operations—which runs
covert operations—lied even to the Agency's own lawyers,
denying knowledge of Nunez's shrimp company though
there was plenty of information in its files.
Fiers also confirmed that the CIA played a critical role in
the "humanitarian" aid operation involving Frigorificos;
without the agency, Fiers said, the NHAO was simply "a
shell entity. . .. We were to be the eyes and ears of the
NHAO office. The only way that they could monitor
alignments, verify shipments and receipts was by having
CIA capabilities in the region perform that function for them.
And so that's what we did." But since at least three other
drug-dealing companies ended up working for the NHAO
during its brief lifespan, either the CIA's oversight was
woefully incompetent or it was seeking a special kind of
contractor.
One such company was DIACSA, the Miami aircraft
company that Floyd Carlton had used for years as the U.S.
headquarters for his Panamanian drug-smuggling venture
with Noriega. It was in DIACSA's offices, Carlton admitted,
that he and his partners plotted their drug flights and
arranged the laundering of their cocaine profits. DEA
records confirm that.
Just like Frigorificos, DIACSA was run by a Cuban drug
dealer who had been part of the CIA's Bay of Pigs
operation, Alfredo Caballero. Carlton testified that

===== PDF PAGE 390 =====
Cabellero was "involved with drug trafficking and to a
certain extent he helped the Contras. But to be more
specific he was helpful to Mr. Pastora's organization
[ARDE]."
According to a Senate subcommittee report, the Contras
were dealing with DIACSA even before it was hired by the
State Department. "During 1984 and 1985, the principal
Contra organization, the FDN, chose DIACSA for 'infra-
account transfers.' The laundering of the money through
DIACSA concealed the fact that some funds of the Contras
were deposits arranged by Lieutenant Colonel Oliver
North," the report stated.
The State Department's selection of DIACSA as a
"humanitarian" aid contractor is perhaps even more
egregious than its choice of Frigorificos. At the time
DIACSA got its government contract, the company had
been penetrated by an undercover DEA agent, Danny
Moritz, who was churning out eyewitness reports of
Caballero's drug dealing and money-laundering rackets.
Moreover, both Caballero and Carlton were under
indictment in the United States for conspiring to import 900
pounds of cocaine and laundering $2.6 million in drug
profits. Both were convicted, and both became U.S.
government informants.
How the CIA missed those clues has never been
explained. It is highly likely the agency knew exactly what
DIACSA was, since its owner was said to be working for
the CIA. "Alfredo Caballero was CIA and still is," insisted
Carol Prado, Eden Pastora's top aide in ARDE. "I say that
because I knew him very well. A lot of times I went to
DIACSA in Miami." Prado has reason to know. A 1985 CIA
cable described DIACSA as the "cover company" used by
the Costa Rican Contras to secretly buy aircraft.

===== PDF PAGE 391 =====
During Noriega's trial in 1991, Floyd Carlton testified that
his smuggling operation was flying weapons to the Contras
at the same time he was flying dope to the United States
and he said some of the arms flights were organized by
Caballero. When Noriega's lawyers asked Carlton about
Oliver North's knowledge of those flights, federal
prosecutors vehemently objected, and U.S. judge William
Hoeveler became angry. "Just stay away from it," the judge
snapped, refusing to allow any more questions on the topic.
Another Miami company the NHAO hired to ferry
supplies was Vortex Aviation, which was being operated by
a Detroit drug dealer named Michael Palmer. Palmer, a
former airline pilot, had worked since 1977 for "the largest
marijuana business cartel in the history of the country,"
according to a federal prosecutor in Detroit. Yet in 1985
Palmer became a freedom fighter and volunteered for the
Contra war effort, transporting humanitarian aid for the
State Department.
In a recently declassified interview with FBI agents in
1991, CIA official Fiers admitted that the CIA had
information that Palmer was dealing drugs during that time.
"Fiers heard that sonic of Palmer's people got caught
taking a plane of drugs into the U.S. and this is what
caused a lot of problems for Palmer," the FBI reported.
"CIA thought the northern Contras were clean but Palmer
was an exception."
One DC-4 Palmer was using to deliver Contra aid was
shot up in February 1986 as it attempted an airdrop over
Nicaragua, and it made an emergency landing on San
Andres Island off the coast of Nicaragua, a notorious haven
for cocaine traffickers. Four days later Owen wrote to North,
saying, "No doubt you know that the DC-4 Foley got was
used at one time to run drugs and part of the crew had

===== PDF PAGE 392 =====
criminal records. Nice group the Boys chose." Pat Foley
was the owner of a Delaware-based company, Summit
Aviation, a longtime CIA and U.S. military contractor, often
for clandestine air operations. Foley was reportedly
overseeing Palmer's operations at Vortex.
Francis McNeil, at the time one of the State
Department's top narcotics intelligence officers, confirmed
to Congress that the DC-4's appearance at San Andres
caused red flags to go up in Washington. "A stop at San
Andres Island for a Contra resupply plane is a bit
suspicious since San Andres is known to be a
transshipment point for drugs," McNeil testified.
The pilot of that unlucky DC-4, former CIA contract pilot
Ronald Lippert, said in an interview that neither his trip nor
his crew were involved with drugs, though the plane had
been involved with drug flights "long before I acquired it."
He said the landing at San Andres was for repairs only. But
he acknowledged that his plane was probably used for drug
flights while Vortex was hauling humanitarian aid for the
Contras. Those flights were piloted by Vortex's own crews,
Lippert said. He knew one of the flights wound up in
Colombia, because he got a call from the FAA in Miami
"asking what my plane was doing, taking off from a dirt strip
on the northeast coast of Colombia during its two-day
mysterious absence on the Nicaraguan Contra flight."
Lippert, a Canadian who flew for the CIA in the early
1960s until his imprisonment by Cuban intelligence agents
in 1963 for espionage, said that "the most I was able to find
out from a friend in the intelligence community was the
name 'Operation Stolen Mercedes' and that aside from
Costa Rica, its itinerary may have included a stop in
Panama and Mexico after it left Colombia."
On another Contra flight, Lippert's plane came back with

===== PDF PAGE 393 =====
an unexplained twelve and a half hours of excess flying time
on it; Palmer told him the pilots had to make an emergency
detour to Costa Rica. In his testimony to the Iran-Contra
committees, Rob Owen confirmed that the airplane was
involved in an unexplained "embarassing situation" in
Costa Rica. "That's when 1 decided some real strange shit
was happening," Lippert said. "It came back all messed up
with bullet holes in the tail and the engine burned out and,
after that, I told them that was it. Unless I'm flying the plane,
it was no dice. So Palmer says, 'Fine, I'll buy the damned
thing from you.'"
Palmer, whom the CIA admits was working as an
Agency subcontractor at this point, arranged to buy
Lippert's DC-4 through some associates of his: a Cuban
lawyer from Miami named Jose Insua and an aircraft
company executive, Richard Kelley, both of whom intimated
to Lippert that they were working with the CIA. After the
sale, Lippert said, the DC-4 was used to airdrop
explosives off the coast of Cuba. Then, a month after he
signed the installment sale papers, it was seized in Mexico
with 2,500 pounds of marijuana on board.
A story in the Mexican newpaper 
La Opinion
 quoted the
attorney general of Mexico as saying that the plane was
being used by a "powerful gang of drug-smugglers. .
.known to have been operating for a long time using large
aircraft to transport arms southbound and bring back
marijuana through here."
Lippert never got the plane back, nor was he ever paid
for it. The company that issued the letters of credit that
"guaranteed" the purchase of his plane was later shut down
by the state of Florida, which announced that its owners
were drug traffickers and fugitive stock swindlers. "Can't we
close a bank or even a supposed bank anymore without

===== PDF PAGE 394 =====
finding some sort of tie to the Contras?" bank examiner
Barry Cladden wondered to a 
Miami Herald
 reporter in
1987. "What's the world coming to?"
One of the DC-4's buyers, Jose Insua, was later exposed
as a drug trafficker and DMA informant himself, and was
used by the agency in an unsuccessful attempt to snare the
former chairman of the Florida Democratic party in a
bribery sting. During the trial, the government admitted that
Insua was "involved in the brokering of aircraft for narcotics
smugglers on approximately 12 occasions."
As Lippert aptly observed in 1997, "Jose Insua is a drug
dealer and he's hanging around a company [Vortex] with a
State Department eon-tract. Michael Zapcdis is a drug
dealer and he issues two letters of credit for planes that are
used by the CIA. Mike Palmer is a drug dealer and he's
running an airline for the CIA. You tell me what's going on."
Actually, the litany of drug dealers working for Vortex was
even longer than that, according to the CIA's Inspector
General. "Michael Palmer, Joseph Haas, Alberto Prado
Herreros, Mauricio Letona, Martin Gómez, Donaldo
Frixone, and two pilots for the prime contractor—all of
whom were affiliated with the CIA Contra support program
—may have been involved in narcotics trafficking prior to
their relationship with the Agency," the Inspector General
found.
Records show top CIA officials were fully aware that
Vortex was dabbling in drugs even before they
recommended the company for the NHAO's "humanitarian
aid" project and, later, for a CIA subcontract.
"At least two Agency officers [Alan Fiers and an
unnamed CIA contractor] knew about Palmer's drug
dealing before the Agency agreed to buy an aircraft from
Vortex and approved the subcontracting to Vortex of the

===== PDF PAGE 395 =====
servicing of aircraft flying resupply flights for the Contras," a
May 1988 CIA memo states.
The NHAO also hired a Honduran air freight company,
SETCO, which happened to be owned by the I londuran
drug kingpin Juan Matta Ballesteros, a fact that the U.S.
Customs Service had known since 1983. "SETCO was the
principal company used by the Contras in Honduras to
transport supplies and personnel for the FDN," the CIA's
Inspector General reported. "[Oliver] North also used
SETCO for airdrops of military supplies to Contra forces
inside Nicaragua." In fact, that appears to have been the
reason behind 
all
 of the State Department contracts that
were awarded to cocaine smugglers: they were the same
people the CIA had hired to do that work when the agency
was running the show.
"I believe we guided them toward the carriers they
ultimately used," former CIA official Alan Fiers confirmed in
1998. Fiers told CIA interviewers in 1987 that he and
NHAO director Robert Duemling "had frequent meetings
regarding possible contract cargo carriers. . .[Fiers] said
he had checked out some of these carriers for Duemling."
Duemling told Iran-Contra investigators that he was given
very specific instructions regarding the cargo carriers when
he took over the humanitarian aid program. "One of the
policy guidelines was do not disrupt the existing
arrangements of the resistance movement unless there is a
terribly good reason," Duemling testified.
"Who told you that, by the way, going back to the
beginning of this?"
"Ollie North," Duemling said. He said North instructed
him not to "dislodge or replace their existing arrangements,
which seemed to be working perfectly well."
They certainly were, in one sense. According to Danilo

===== PDF PAGE 396 =====
Blandón's lawyer, Brad Brunon, the Centra's cocaine was
arriving in the United States literally by the planeload. "The
transportation channel got established and got filled up with
cocaine rather quickly," Brunon said in an interview. "As I
understood it, these large transports were coming back
from delivering food and guns and humanitarian aid and
things like that and they were just loading them up with
cocaine and bringing them back. I think 1,000-kilo
shipments were not unheard of. That scale. Because all of
a sudden they seemed to have unlimited sources of
supply."
According to former Meneses aide Enrique Miranda,
Meneses's drug-laden planes were flying out of a military
air base in El Salvador called Ilopango. Like the CIA before
him, North had selected that base as the hub for his Contra
air force; his operatives worked there "practically
unfettered," according to the report of Iran-Contra
prosecutor Lawrence Walsh.
And it was at Ilopango where the whole sordid mess first
started to unravel.

===== PDF PAGE 397 =====
13

===== PDF PAGE 398 =====
"The wrong kind of friends"
I
t didn't take DEA agent Celerino Castillo III very long to
discover that something very strange was going on at
Ilopango Air Force Base in El Salvador. Two days into his
new job at the DEA's regional office in Guatemala City in
October 1985, Castillo said the agent-in-charge, Robert
Stia, took him aside and told him that the U.S. government
was running a covert operation at the air base. Castillo
should be careful not to interfere with it.
It struck the former Texas policeman as odd advice. Why
would a DEA field agent need to be warned about
interfering with a legitimate government operation? Castillo
was there to fight drug dealers. Whatever they were doing
at the military airfield outside San Salvador couldn't
possibly concern him. At any rate, it wasn't as if he was
going to be spending a lot of time in El Salvador. Though
he was the country's only DEA agent, Castillo lived and
worked in neighboring Guatemala and had duties there
also.
Besides, El Salvador in late 1985 had all the makings of
a very sorry posting. The war-torn country produced no
drugs, and as far as anyone knew there were no major drug
rings operating there. It was of such little concern to the
American government that the DEA never opened an office
in the country. If El Salvador was anything, it was a resting
place for cocaine mules on their way north.
Flipping through the reports of his predecessors, Castillo
could see that the DEA's role in the country had been
limited to intelligence gathering, collecting information
about drug shipments passing through and filing them
away, making few seizures. "We were playing traffic cop,

===== PDF PAGE 399 =====
taking down the license numbers of speeders but never
writing any tickets," Castillo would later observe.
Castillo put his boss's warning about Ilopango down to
bureaucratic caution and got on with his job, which was to
train and recruit Guatemalan and Salvadoran policemen to
become soldiers in America's worldwide war on drugs.
Since the DEA couldn't legally make any arrests in Central
America, his assignment was to put together local
antinarcotics squads the DEA could trust enough to work
with, and develop informants who could provide real-time
intelligence.
But no matter where he went, it seemed, Ilopango kept
coming up.
Castillo was out one day with a DEA informant in
Guatemala, a Cuban named Socrates Sofi-Perez, who
proudly informed Castillo that he was a Bay of Pigs veteran
and a Contra supporter. After learning that his new control
agent had been decorated for fighting Communists in
Vietnam, Sofi-Perez confided that he was helping the
Contras fight Marxism in Nicaragua and laid out a scheme
that was remarkably similar to the operation Frigorifieos
was then conducting in Costa Rica: a shrimp company he
owned was being used as a front to launder money for the
Contras. The Contras were also dealing in cocaine, he told
Castillo, using a small air force based at Ilopango that was
ferrying war materials for the cause. He justified the
trafficking by blaming the U.S. Congress for ill-advisedly
cutting off Contra aid.
Castillo wasn't sure if his informant was trying to impress
him, pull his leg, or waste his time. I he idea of a U.S.
government-sponsored operation dabbling in drugs struck
the six-year DEA veteran as absurd. But there was one way
to find out. The next time he was in El Salvador, Castillo

===== PDF PAGE 400 =====
said, he bounced the Cuban's story off one of the few
informants the DEA had there, Ramiro Guerra, who owned
a coffee shop in San Salvador. Guerra was working for the
DEA as the result of a pending cocaine trafficking
indictment in San Francisco, where he had lived for many
years. While hiding out in El Salvador, Guerra picked up
pocket money by acting as an informant for the very agency
that wanted him in jail back in the United States. He had
also insinuated himself into Roberto D'Aubuisson's right-
wing ARENA party, and had risen to a high level inside the
party structure.
To Castillo's surprise, Guerra told him that the
information about drugs at Ilopango was probably true.
He'd heard the same rumors himself. And he confirmed that
there was indeed a small air force based there that was
illegally flying supplies to the Contras, but it really wasn't
very secretive. While headquartered on the restricted
military side of the Ilopango airport, the Contra air supply
operation was being run quite openly, and a lot of his
friends in the Salvadoran Air Force knew about it, Guerra
told Castillo.
"The woman selling tortillas at the gate of Ilopango could
tell you what was going on," the assistant regional security
officer for the U.S. embassy in San Salvador told Iran-
Contra investigators in 1991. "Anyone who ever flew into or
over Ilopango air base could see something like that was
going on. When looking down at Ilopango from the air, one
could see one side of the airfield having a ragtag operation
of inferior planes, dilapidated buildings and the like. On the
other side of the airport were nice facilities, lift trucks
unloading supplies from more sophisticated and bigger
aircraft, and gringos running around."
The modern facilities "all belonged to the American

===== PDF PAGE 401 =====
operation," the officer said, adding that he didn't know "if it
was a CIA operation or what, but he knew there was Contra
resupply activity at Ilopango."
While CIA officials denied they were running the show,
they admitted they were keeping a very close eye on it.
"We had a capability and indeed a responsibility for
reporting what had been happening at Ilopango," said Alan
Fiers Jr., the former CIA official who headed the Contra
program from 1984 to 1988.
Guerra told Castillo that a Cuban named Max Gómez
was doing the actual day-to-day management of the
operation for the U.S. government. "Gómez," was the name
then being used by CIA agent Felix Rodriguez, a Bay of
Pigs veteran who'd had a remarkable career with the
agency as a paramilitary specialist. Among other
operations, he'd been in on the capture and execution of
Che Guevara. In early 1985 Rodriguez appeared in El
Salvador as an adviser to the Salvadoran Air Force,
working on a helicopter-based counterinsurgency operation
against the FMLN guerrillas.
While Rodriguez has always claimed—sometimes under
oath—that he was retired from the CIA and in El Salvador
merely as a volunteer and private citizen, former CIA officer
Fiers suggested otherwise. He testified that Rodriguez was
sent there in early 1985 as part of a CIA reorganization that
began after Fiers took over the Central American Task
Force. "As a result of the change in management of the
task force. . .we undertook a complete review of our efforts
in San Salvador. . .and made adjustments in that
undertaking that left certain operations, certain activities
that we had—left a void," Fiers testified in 1992. "Felix
Rodriguez was put into—sent to El Salvador to work in the
areas where we had left a void and was going to take over

===== PDF PAGE 402 =====
those responsibilities, or at least in part take over those
responsibilities."
Rodriguez's journey from "retirement" to Ilopango began
with a very strange step. Shortly before he left for
Washington, D.C., to get final approval for his mission to El
Salvador, he received a call from a friendly private eye in
Miami who wanted him to meet "a client who could
compromise the Nicaraguan Sandinista government for
drug-money laundering," Rodriguez wrote in his memoirs.
The client turned out to be former Medellín cartel
accountant Ramon Milian Rodriguez—the man who had set
up the Costa Rican shrimp company Oliver North would
later use to funnel money to the Contras. Rodriguez said
Milian was trying to broker information to obtain help in the
money laundering case pending against him. Not only did
he tell Rodriguez of Manuel Noriega's drug activities, but he
claimed he could provide proof of Sandinista drug dealing.
Rodriguez said he passed the info along to the CIA and FBI
and heard nothing back.
Milian tells a very different story. He met with Rodriguez
to offer $10 million to the Contras in exchange for the U.S.
government dropping the money laundering charges
against him, he says; Rodriguez accepted the offer, and
money was delivered to him on five separate occasions.
Milian later failed a lie detector test when asked about
making payments to Rodriguez, but the examiner reached
no conclusions about his claim that he'd given money to the
Contras. In congressional testimony, Noriega's former
political adviser described Felix Rodriguez as "a very close
friend of Milian." Both were Cubans who had been active in
Miami's anti-Castro movement.
Most accounts date the Contras' use of Ilopango to
September 1985, when North wrote to Rodriguez, asking

===== PDF PAGE 403 =====
him to use his influence with Salvadoran Air Force
commander Juan Rafael Bustillo to secure hangar space
for Contra supply flights. Rodriguez claimed he "greased
the skids" with Bustillo and eventually became the overseer
of North's Contra resupply operation at the air base.
In actuality, the Contras had been using Ilopango with
General Bustillo's blessings since 1983, when Norwin
Meneses's friend, CIA pilot Marcos Aguado, made
arrangements to base Eden Pastora's ARDE air force
there.
Since he could not devote all of his time to North's secret
air force, Rodriguez wrote, "I found someone to manage
the Salvadoran-based resupply operation on a day-to-day
basis. [At Ilopango] they knew that person as Ramon
Medina. I knew him by his real name: Luis Posada
Carriles."
With men like Luis Posada and Marcos Aguado running
things at Ilopango, it's little wonder DEA agent Castillo was
hearing rumors about Contra drug trafficking. Luis Posada
was a veteran CIA agent with a history of involvement with
drug traffickers, mobsters, and terrorists. He was recruited
by the CIA in the 1960s after years of working with anti-
Castro Cubans in Miami and was implicated in a number of
terrorist incidents conducted by various Cuban extremist
groups. In 1967, CIA records show, Posada was
investigated by the Justice Department for supplying
explosives, silencers, and hand grenades to Miami
mobsters "Lefty" Rosenthal and Norman "Roughhouse"
Rothman. Rothman was a close associate of South
Florida's Mafia chieftain, Santos Trafficante. A memo in
Posada's CIA file said, "Posada may have been
moonlighting for Rosenthal," but in late 1968 he was
transferred by the agency for "unreported association with

===== PDF PAGE 404 =====
gangster elements, thefts from CIA, plus other items."
Posada was sent to Venezuela and began working as an
official of the Venezuelan intelligence service. In 1973 the
DEA received a report that Posada "was in contact with
two Cubans in Miami who were reportedly smuggling
narcotics into the United States for Luis Posada."
According to the informant, Posada was to be "the main
contact" in a major cocaine smuggling operation involving
members of the Venezuelan government. The DEA placed
Posada under surveillance and he "was observed by
agents in Miami to meet with numerous identified upper
echelon traffickers in Miami during March 1973."
Records show the CIA was fully aware of its agent's
reported involvement with drug traffickers. It received word
in February 1973 that "Posada may be involved in
smuggling cocaine from Colombia through Venezuela to
Miami, also counterfeit U.S. money in Venezuela." But the
agency decided "not to directly confront Posada with
allegation so as not to compromise ongoing investigation."
According to the notes of a congressional investigator
who reviewed Posada's voluminous CIA files in the late
1970s, cables in the file "indicate concern that Posada
[was a] serious potential liability. Anxious to terminate
association promptly if allegations prove true. By April
1973, it seems sure that Posada involved in narcotics, drug
trafficking—seen with known big time drug trafficker." But
after questioning the Cuban about his contacts, the agency
found him "guilty only of having the wrong kind of friends"
and continued his employment.
His choice of friends continued to plague Posada,
however. In January 1974 he asked the CIA to provide a
Venezuelan passport for a Dominican military official,
which the agency refused to do on the grounds that it

===== PDF PAGE 405 =====
"cannot permit controlled agents to become directly
involved with illicit drug trafficking." A few months later the
DEA received a report that Posada was trading weapons
for cocaine with a man the DEA believed "is involved in
political assassinations."
According to records at the National Archives, the CIA
formally terminated Posada in February 1976. Eight
months later he was arrested in Venezuela and accused of
participating in the midair bombing of a Cuban DC-8
airliner, which killed seventy-eight people. Though never
convicted of the crime, he spent nearly ten years in
Venezuelan prisons before escaping in the summer of
1985 and going underground. He resurfaced at Ilopango in
early 1986 as Felix Rodriguez's right-hand man, telling
investigators that "Rodriguez and other Cuban friends"
helped him "get out of Venezuela and relocate in Fl
Salvador. Upon arriving in El Salvador, Posada stayed with
Rodriguez for two or three days. Rodriguez then helped
Posada get a house in San Salvador, where Posada lived
for the next year or so."
Though allegations of Contra drug trafficking were
swirling around Ilopango, DEA agent Castillo was having
difficulty getting firsthand evidence of it. For one thing, the
air base was in a very protected position, high atop a
plateau, surrounded by imposing cliffs. The area where the
trafficking was supposedly going on was off limits to the
public, tightly guarded by the Salvadoran military. If he was
ever going to find out the truth, Castillo figured, he needed
to get onto that side of the base.
He went to Salvadoran Air Force commander Bustillo,
lord and master of Ilopango, for permission, but got the cold
shoulder. "An agent from the DEA's branch office in
Guatemala City came to San Salvador seeking access to

===== PDF PAGE 406 =====
Ilopango," the 
New Republic
 reported in 1990, adding that
Bustillo "stalled" the requests. "There was never a good
reason why [the DEA] couldn't get on Ilopango," the
magazine quoted an unnamed U.S. official as saying.
"They just kept putting off meetings, stuff like that."
So Castillo improvised. He recruited a Salvadoran
named Murga, who wrote the flight plans for the private
planes on the civilian portion of the base. Murga had
excellent contacts on the military side and could come and
go at will. He became Castillo's eyes and ears inside
Ilopango.
Murga knew all about the Contras' drug running, Castillo
said, because he was filling out their flight plans and
inspecting their aircraft; the pilots were so brazen that they
told him they were flying dope to the United States and
money to Panama. Sometimes they left with the kilos in
plain view, or arrived with boxloads of money, Castillo said.
In a once-secret 1992 interview with the FBI, ex-CIA
agent Posada recounted that "the resupply project was
always looking for people to carry cash from the United
States into El Salvador for Posada to dispense. They were
always worried about the restriction on only taking $ 10,000
out of the United States at one time. Any time any of the
resupply people went up to the United States for any
reason, whether it was a personal visit or whatever, they
would be asked to bring money back." Posada was told
"the money came from Washington," but never got a better
explanation than that.
The drugs often arrived in private planes flown by Contra
pilots from Costa Rica, Murga told Castillo; on other
occasions they came in military aircraft from Panama.
When Castillo typed the names of the Contra pilots
Murga had given him into the DEA's computers, nearly all

===== PDF PAGE 407 =====
of them came back as documented narcotics traffickers.
Among the busiest of the pilots was Francisco Guirola
Beeche, the scion of one of El Salvador's most influential
families. How Chico Guirola wound up at Ilopango flying f or
the Contras is an illuminating tale; he should have been
sitting in a federal prison cell in the United States.
On the morning of February 6, 1985, a white T-39
Sabreliner jet took off from John Wayne Airport in Orange
County, California, with Guirola and three other men—
Cuban-Americans—aboard. It stopped briefly at the
Kleberg County Airport in Kingsville, Texas, to refuel, and
was met by a posse of U.S. Customs Service agents
wielding search warrants. The agents had been tracking
the men since the month before, when they were spotted in
the same plane leaving Orange County for Florida. In mid-
flight, they had suspiciously diverted to Panama, where they
landed with $1.2 million in cash.
Guirola and his crew were all listed in Customs
databases as suspected drug traffickers, and their airplane
was on a watch list as a suspected smuggling craft—for
good reason, it turned out. In the Sabreliner's cargo hold
were fourteen suitcases, which Guirola claimed as his. He
pulled out a Costa Rican diplomatic passport and advised
the agents not to search the suitcases, or it would "cause
trouble."
He was right. They were bulging with cash, a total of $5.9
million in small bills, the largest cash seizure in Texas
history. When the agents announced they were arresting
the men for trying to smuggle the cash out of the country,
Guirola claimed diplomatic immunity because his mother
was the Costa Rican vice-consul in New Mexico.
In court records, federal agents charged that the cash
was drug money destined for El Salvador. They cited DEA

===== PDF PAGE 408 =====
records that said Guirola had been "reportedly involved in
cocaine and arms smuggling in El Salvador and
Guatemala" and noted that he was a top aide to
Salvadoran death squad leader Roberto D'Aubuisson.
The latter claim was confirmed by the 
Los Angeles
Times
, which reported that Guirola had accompanied
D'Aubuisson to a "very sensitive" meeting with former CIA
deputy director Vernon Walters in May 1984. According to
the story, Walters had been dispatched in a frantic attempt
to talk D'Aubuisson out of assassinating Thomas
Pickering, the U.S. ambassador to El Salvador.
Guirola, who attended college in California with one of
Anastasio Somoza's nephews, had allowed D'Aubuisson
to use his house as a campaign headquarters when he ran
for Salvadoran president in 1984. Guirola's passport, which
was signed by D'Aubuisson, identified him as a "special
adviser" to the Salvadoran Assembly. He was also carrying
credentials from the Salvadoran attorney general's office.
Since Guirola was using an Orange County airport as his
departure point, it is possible that the millions he was
hauling out of the country came from Los Angeles—area
drug sales. But the source of the funds was never made
public. "The investigation came to a sudden, abrupt halt
with a lot of questions unanswered," U.S. Customs agent
Krnest Allison complained.
That was because the justice Department had made a
quick deal with Guirola: If he let the U.S. government keep
the money, he'd be let off with probation. Guirola and one of
his companions pleaded guilty to a minor currency violation
charge and walked. Charges against another passenger
and the pilot were dropped, and the plane was given back.
"I have a hard time swallowing it," federal judge I layden I
lead Jr. told Guirola after the Justice Department

===== PDF PAGE 409 =====
announced its plea bargain with the smuggler. "The
punishment doesn't fit the crime. . .. I don't know what you
were up to, but this conduct cannot be tolerated."
Less than a year later, DEA agent Castillo and his
informants were watching Guirola zoom in and out of
Ilopango, hauling drugs in, carrying cash to the Bahamas,
and flashing credentials from the Salvadoran Air Force and
the Salvadoran president's office. "When I ran Guirola's
name in the computer, it popped up in 11 DEA files,
detailing his South America-to-United States cocaine,
arms and money laundering," Castillo wrote in his memoirs.
In response to a Freedom of Information Act request filed
in 1997, the Customs Service claimed it could not locate
any records relating to the Guirola case.
Castillo said that in January 1986 he began firing off a
string of reports to DEA headquarters in Washington about
the suspicious activities of the Contra pilots, listing their
names, destinations, tail numbers, and criminal records. He
got no replies, and no offers of assistance. It was, he wrote
later, as if his reports were "falling into some faceless,
bureaucratic black hole."
But in late March 1986 Castillo got his first official
confirmation that he was on the right track. A cable arrived
from the Costa Rican DEA office reporting that a pilot
named Carlos Amador was intending to fly into Ilopango,
pick up cocaine at Hangar No. 4, and take it to Miami.
Amador would be carrying Salvadoran government
identification, which got him through Customs and any
inspections. Castillo was asked to "investigate Amador
and any persons or companies associated with Hangar No.
4."
As Castillo would soon realize, that was easier said than
done; he was about to plunge headlong into the darkness

===== PDF PAGE 410 =====
of one of the Reagan Administration's most secret
operations, a clandestine activity that Reagan privately
predicted would result in him and his Cabinet being strung
up by their thumbs on the White House lawn if word ever
leaked out to the public. CIA records show that Hangar No.
4 had been used by the Agency for covert Contra
operations until it was turned over in 1985 to the National
Security Council and Oliver North's illegal arms network,
"The Enterprise." CIA agent Felix Rodriguez also used the
hangar for his helicopter-based counterinsurgency
program. The adjoining hangar, No. 5, was still being used
by the CIA in support of the Contra project.
Moreover, the suspected drug pilot, Carlos Amador, had
been working with the CIA for years, flying missions for the
Costa Rican Contras. The CIA had been collecting
information for at least a year indicating Amador was also
flying drug planes between Costa Rica, Panama, Belize,
and Miami for a pair of major cocaine traffickers, the
Sarcovic brothers, at the same time he was flying for the
White House.
Excited that his investigation was finally starting to bear
fruit, Castillo drove to El Salvador to tell his informants and
the Salvadoran narcotics police the good news—he now
had independent confirmation that their stories of Contra
drug flights at Ilopango were true. Someone would finally
start listening to them, Castillo exulted.
But the CIA had other ideas. Within weeks, cables were
shooting off in a dozen directions as the Agency quickly
tried to get a handle on the DEA agent's investigation.
In April 1986 the CIA station in El Salvador sent a
desperate message to the Costa Rican CIA office, asking
if the DEA office there could be persuaded to back off.
"Hangar No. 4 at Ilopango was the location of Contra

===== PDF PAGE 411 =====
operations and. . .the El Salvador Station could assure that
the only thing Amador and the other pilot had transported
during their flights there was military supplies," the cable
stated. "Based on that information, El Salvador Station
would appreciate Costa Rica Station advising DEA not to
make any inquiries into anyone re: Hangar No. 4 at
Ilopango since only legitimate CIA supported operations
were conducted from this facility. FYI, Station air operations
moved from Hangar No. 4 into Hangar No. 5, which Station
still occupies."
The CIA official who wrote that cable told the agency's
Inspector General that "his statement was not intended to
thwart an investigation of activities in Hangar No. 4. He
concedes, however, that the language in the cable could be
read to suggest a meaning he did not intend." Plus, that
was the effect it had.
The official alarm was easily understood. Not only was
someone like-Carlos Amador strolling freely in and out of
CIA-run hangars, but there was a host of other Contra
traffickers milling about Ilopango, including Norwin
Meneses and friends.
Enrique Miranda Jaime, who became Meneses's
emissary to the cartels of Colombia in the late 1980s,
testified in a 1992 trial in Nicaragua that "Norwin was
selling drugs and tunneled the benefits to the Contras with
help of high-ranking military officials of the Salvadoran
Army, especially with the help of the head of the Salvadoran
Air Force and a Nicaraguan pilot named Marcos Aguado."
Aguado, the chief pilot for the ARDE Contra forces in
Costa Rica, was identified in 1987 congressional
testimony as a CIA agent. Soon after North set up his
resupply operation at the air base, Aguado moved to
Ilopango permanently, working as an aide to a high-ranking

===== PDF PAGE 412 =====
Salvadoran air force commander. The pilot, who had been
instrumental in arranging the Contras' 1984 arms-and-
drugs deals with Colombian trafficker George Morales,
was no longer welcome in Costa Rica, having been
formally accused of cocaine trafficking. "Aguado became a
colonel in the Salvadoran Air Force, sharing all the
privileges of a high-ranking military officer in El Salvador
and was accepted by subordinate ranks as Deputy
Commander of the Salvadoran Air Force," Miranda
testified. "The flights he directed went as far as Colombia,
where they were loaded with cocaine and then redirected
to the United States, to a U.S. Air Force base located in the
state of Texas."
In interviews, Miranda and former Nicaraguan antidrug
czar Roger Mayorga, who arrested Miranda, said the U.S.
air base was near Fort Worth, but neither knew the name of
it. The only air force base near Fort Worth at the time of the
alleged drug flights from Ilopango was the now-closed
Carswell Air Force Base, the home of a Strategic Air
Command bomber squadron. In response to a Freedom of
Information Act request filed in 1997, the U.S. Air Force
said all flight records that may have shown arrivals and
departures of Salvadoran military aircraft during the mid-
1980s were destroyed years ago.
Miranda, a former Sandinista intelligence officer who
became a double agent for the CIA during the Contra war
and has worked as a DEA informant in recent years, said
the cocaine brought from Colombia by Medellín cartel pilots
arrived in Costa Rica in square twenty-five-kilo packages. It
was unloaded at various airstrips there, including one
located on CIA operative John Hull's farm in northern Costa
Rica, where it was placed aboard Contra planes and flown
into Ilopango.

===== PDF PAGE 413 =====
Once it had arrived at the Salvadoran base, Miranda
said, Aguado and Meneses supervised the loading of the
cocaine onto U.S.-bound aircraft owned by the Salvadoran
Air Force and, on occasion, a Miami-based CIA contractor,
Southern Air Transport. Though Southern Air officials have
vehemently denied involvement with drug smuggling, once
suing a Florida TV station for daring to suggest such a
thing, CIA and DEA records show that the airline was under
investigation for drug trafficking by U.S. Customs in 1987.
Further, Southern Air was "of record" in the DEA's
databases from 1985 through 1990 "for alleged
involvement in cocaine trafficking. . .several of the firm's
pilots and executives were suspected of smuggling
narcotics currency," the DEA reported. Southern Air was
once owned by the CIA.
Miranda testified that he met CIA pilot Aguado for dinner
at Meneses's mansion in Managua in 1991, where Aguado
regaled them with tales of flying for the Colombian cartels.
Aguado told him that he once took a Salvadoran Air Force
bomber and leveled a warehouse full of Medellín cartel
cocaine on behalf of the rival Cali cartel. Another time, he
made plans to bomb the prison where Medellín cartel chief
Pablo Escobar was briefly imprisoned. Aguado also
boasted of flying weapons from the Salvadoran military to
the Colombian cartels, a story Miranda said he doubted
until a Salvadoran Air Force colonel and his associates
were arrested in 1992 for selling bombs and high
explosives to Colombian drug dealers.
Miranda said Meneses told him that U.S. military
hardware stockpiled at Ilopango was loaded onto
Salvadoran transport planes and flown south, where the
guns were traded for cocaine and flown back to Ilopango.
As wild as that scheme sounds, records show Enrique

===== PDF PAGE 414 =====
Miranda is not the first drug trafficker to have reported such
a fantastic operation. During the 1980s the U.S. Justice
Department received at least three other reports from
reliable informants detailing arms-for-drugs swaps involving
the Medellín cartel, the Contras, and elements of the U.S.
government.
One of those informants, records show, was a member
of Meneses' drug ring, a boyhood friend who "had a long
track record of providing information and was considered
extremely reliable," according to the Justice Department's
Inspector General. The friend was questioned in April 1986
by a DEA intelligence analyst as part of a secret DEA
assessment of allegations that the Contras were involved in
drug smuggling; he not only confirmed that Meneses was
selling cocaine to raise money for the Contras, but said
"some of these proceeds were used to buy weapons for
the Contras in Colombia." The DEA informant related that
"Meneses had recruited him to coordinate drug and
weapons shipments from Colombia. . .the drugs were
shipped to the United States, sometimes through
Nicaragua. Meneses boasted that he traveled in and out of
Nicaragua freely and that U.S. agents would assist him."
Another report of Colombian cocaine being traded for
U.S. weapons surfaced less than two years later, during the
1988 debriefings of a Colombian trafficker turned
government informant, Allen Raul Rudd, who was
questioned by Justice Department officials and the U.S.
Attorney's office in Tampa, Florida.
In a February 1988 memo marked "Sensitive," Assistant
U.S. Attorney Walter E. Furr told his boss that Rudd "is a
very articulate individual and there has been no indication
to date that he has not been totally candid. In a real sense
his life is on the line for the cooperation he has given so

===== PDF PAGE 415 =====
far." Furr probably thought it necessary to add his
testament to Rudd's credibility in light of what he was about
to report next: the Medellín cartel reportedly had made a
deal with Vice President George Bush to supply American
weapons to the Contras in exchange for free passage for
their cocaine deliveries to the U.S.
Rudd told the officials that in the spring of 1987 he'd met
in Medellín, Colombia, with cartel boss Pablo Escobar to
arrange a drug deal. In the course of their conversation at
Escobar's palatial home, Rudd said, the cocaine lord
began ranting about Bush and his South Florida Drug Task
Force, which was making the cartel's deliveries to the
Miami area more difficult.
"Escobar then stated that Bush is a traitor who used to
deal with us, but now he is tough," Rudcl told the federal
officials. Escobar described "an agreement or relationship
between Bush and the American government and
members of the Medellín cartel which resulted in planes
similar to C-130s (but smaller) flying guns to the cartel in
Colombia. According to Rudd, Escobar stated that the
cartel then off-loaded the guns, put cocaine aboard the
planes and the cocaine was taken to United States military
base(s). The guns were delivered and sold to the Contras
in Nicaragua by the Cartel."
Escobar, Rudd said, explained that "it was a swap of
cocaine for guns. . .Rudd has stated that while Escobar did
not say the CIA was involved in the exchange of guns for
cocaine, that was the tenor of the conversation. Rudd has
stated that Escobar and the rest of the cartel members are
very supportive of the Contras and dislike the Sandinistas
as they dislike the guerrillas which operate within
Colombia."
Rudd claimed that Escobar had photographic proof to

===== PDF PAGE 416 =====
back up his story. Not only were there "photographs of the
planes containing the guns being unloaded in Columbia,"
but he claimed to have a picture of Bush posing with
Medellín cartel leader Jorge Ochoa, in front of suitcases full
of money. "After Escobar talked about the photograph,
Rudd said that if the photograph was not genuine (and was
merely two individual photographs spliced together
somehow) it would be easily discredited," Furr wrote. "In
response, Escobar stated that the photograph was
genuine, it would stand up to any test. . .Escobar stated that
the photo would be made public at the 'appropriate time.'
Rudd indicated that the photo is being held back as
blackmail if the cartel ever needs to bring pressure on
Bush."
By 1993 Escobar was dead, killed in a shoot-out with
Colombian police, and Jorge Ochoa was in jail. The
photos, if they ever existed, were never heard of again.
Rudd's story is very similar to one told by a Miami FBI
informant, Wanda Palacios, who reported in 1986 that she
had witnessed Southern Air Transport planes being loaded
with cocaine and unloading guns in Barranquilla, Colombia,
in 1983 and October 1985. Palacios, the wife of a
Colombian trafficker, said she'd accompanied Pablo
Escobar in a limousine to the landing site and had spoken
about it as well to Jorge Ochoa, who bragged that he was
working with the CIA to get cocaine into south Florida.
Palaeios was interviewed in 1986 by the staff of Senator
John Kerry of Massachusetts, which was looking into
allegations of Contra drug smuggling. Kerry's staff found
her and her story credible and took an eleven-page
statement from her. The senator and an aide took it to the
Justice Department in September 1986, and met with
William Weld, one of Attorney General Edwin Meese's top

===== PDF PAGE 417 =====
assistants.
"Weld read about a half a page and chuckled," Kerry
aide Jonathan Winer wrote in a memorandum after the
meeting. "I asked him why. He said this isn't the first time
today I've seen allegations about CIA agent involvement in
drugs. . .he stated several times in reading Wanda's
statement that while he couldn't vouch for every line in it. .
.there was nothing in it which didn't appear true to him, or
inconsistent with what he already knew."
But when her allegations leaked out to the press,
Palacios was publicly dismissed as a crank by top Justice
Department officials, who said polygraph tests she'd been
given were "inconclusive." Southern Air Transport called
her "a lunatic" and sued or threatened suit against news
organizations that aired her allegations.
Her story was buttressed mightily by subsequent events,
however.
When the Sandinistas blew a Southern Air Transport C-
123K out of the sky over Nicaragua in early October 1986,
the dead pilot's flight logs revealed that he had flown
several Southern Air Transport flights to Barranquilla,
Colombia. The flights had occurred during October 1985,
exactly as Palacios had claimed, and she was able to
identify the pilot's picture in a lineup. Southern Air said in a
statement that the planes were carrying drilling equipment,
not drugs.
The wrecked C-123K in which those flight logs were
found had a history of involvement with cocaine, the
Medellín cartel, and the CIA. It was the same airplane
Louisiana drug dealer Barry Seal used in a joint CIA-DEA
sting operation in 1984 against the Sandinistas. In that
case the CIA had taken Seal's plane—which he'd recently
obtained through a complicated airplane swap with the

===== PDF PAGE 418 =====
cartel—to Rickenbacker Air Force Base in Ohio and
outfitted it with hidden cameras. Then Seal, who was
working as a DEA informant, flew the aircraft to an airfield
in Nicaragua and snapped pictures of men loading bags of
cocaine into his plane.
One of Seal's grainy, almost indistinguishable photos
was later shown on national television by President Ronald
Reagan the night before a crucial vote in Congress on
Contra aid. "This picture, secrcth taken at a military airfield
outside Managua, shows Federico Vaughn, a top aide to
one of the nine commandantes who rule Nicaragua, loading
an aircraft with illegal narcotics, bound for the United
States," Reagan announced. "No, there seems to be no
crime to which the Sandinistas will not stoop—this is an
outlaw regime."
But declassified CIA records show the Reagan
Administration knew there was precious little to
substantiate that. Even with the entire CIA contingent in
Central America on the alert for Sandinista drug dealing, no
evidence had been found. "Although uncorroborated
reports indicating Nicaraguan involvement in the shipping
of cocaine to the United States had been received, CIA
was unable to confirm reports implicating high-level
Sandinistas in drug trafficking," the CIA informed the
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence in April 1984.
Two years later, Justice Department officials reached the
same discouraging conclusion.
A 1988 congressional investigation raised troubling
questions about whether or not the Seal sting was even a
real sting. It produced evidence suggesting that the whole
episode had been stage-managed by Oliver North and the
CIA as a domestic disinformation operation. Among other
things, the House Judiciary Committee investigation

===== PDF PAGE 419 =====
revealed that the alleged Sandinista official named by
Reagan, Federico Vaughn, may have actually been
working for the U.S. government. Committee chairman
William Hughes of New Jersey told reporters that
"subcommittee staff recently called Vaughn's number in
Managua, Nicaragua, and spoke to a 'domestic employee'
who said the house belonged to a U.S. Embassy
employee," and that his investigators were told the house
had been "continuously rented" by the United States since
1981.
Recently declassified CIA cables lend additional support
to the idea that Vaughn was in fact a U.S. double agent. In
March 1985 the CIA reported that Vaughn "was said to be
an associate of Nicaraguan narcotics trafficker Norwing
[sic] Meneses Cantarero." Meneses at that time was
working with the DEA in Costa Rica, assisting the Contras.
And Oliver North's daily diaries for that period contained
several references to "Freddy Vaughn," including a July 6,
1984, entry that said, "Freddy coming in late July."
Far from being a "top aide" to a Sandinista
commandante, Vaughn was a deputy director of Heroes
and Martyrs Trading Corporation, the official import-export
agency of the Sandinista government, a firm that had been
heavily infiltrated by CIA operatives. Records show that one
of the Costa Rican-based drug traffickers working for North
and the CIA, Bay of Pigs veteran Dagoberto Nunez,
obtained a contract with H&M Corp. in order to cover an
intelligence-gathering operation aimed at Nicaraguan
president Daniel Ortega, his brother Humberto, and Interior
Minister Tomas Borge. According to a 1986 memo from
CIA operative Rob Owen to North, Nunez was preparing to
sign an agreement with H&M for shrimping rights off the
Pacific Coast of Nicaragua. "Nunez is doing this so he can

===== PDF PAGE 420 =====
help us. He will cooperate and do anything we ask," Owen
told North. "He believes this will provide an opportunity to
use his boats for cover operations, or to implicate the
Ortegas and Borge in taking money on the side for their
own pocket. He is right on both counts."
Four DEA officials testified before Hughes's committee
that they'd received pressure from North and the CIA to
leak the news of Vaughn's involvement with drugs to the
press. They also said North wanted to take $1.5 million in
drug profits Seal had collected from the Medellín cartel and
give it to the Contras. When the DEA refused to do either,
the DEA officials testified, the story was leaked by the
White House to the right-wing 
Washington Times
, which
was supporting the Contras both financially and editorially.
The leak accomplished two things. It publicly linked the
Sandinistas to drug trafficking right before a crucial Contra
aid vote. And by prematurely exposing the sting, it blew the
DEA's investigation of the Medellín cartel, which DEA
agents said had been their most promising chance ever to
break up the Colombian drug conglomerate. The drug lords
went free, and Vaughn disappeared.
"The [Seal] sting operation has North's fingerprints all
over it," columnist Jefferson Morley wrote in the 
L.A. Times
in 1986.
After Seal flew his CIA/DEA missions, he never used the
C-123K cargo plane again, parking it at the tiny Mena,
Arkansas, airport for a year, then selling it back to the same
company he'd gotten it from originally. In early 1986 it
wound up with CIA contractor Southern Air Transport,
where it was used for Contra supply runs and based at
Ilopango until its last, fatal flight.
Unfortunately, the informants' allegations of a guns-for-
drugs deal between the Reagan administration and the

===== PDF PAGE 421 =====
Medellín cartel were never seriously investigated. The
memo of Rudd's debriefing was sent to Iran-Contra
prosecutor Lawrence Walsh by the Department of Justice a
month later, with a note from Associate Attorney General
Stephen S. Trott, which said that "no action is being taken
by the Department pending a determination by your office
as to whether you intend to assert jurisdiction." Walsh's
office apparently just filed the memo away; National
Archives researchers found it while working their way
through the Iran-Contra prosecutor's closed investigative
files.
One of the lawyers who worked for Walsh told the CIA in
1997 that investigating Contra drug dealing comprised
"only about one percent" of the Walsh probe's interest. "For
the most part," the CIA reported, "any drug trafficking
activity would have been 'stumbled on' in the course of the
investigation of other issues, especially money laundering."
In an interview, Walsh said he tried to stay away from the
Contra drug trafficking issue as much as possible because
it was outside his jurisdiction and because he knew
Senator John Kerry's Senate subcommittee was
investigating the topic. But it appears that Walsh's office
never passed the Rudd memo along to Kerry's
investigators.
Castillo's investigation into Contra drug dealing at
Ilopango met with a similar fate, thanks to the activities of
the American ambassador in El Salvador, Edwin Corr, to
whom Castillo was regularly reporting. Corr said he thought
Castillo "was a very professional and a good agent" and
had no reason to doubt what Castillo was telling him about
what was going on Ilopango. But, Corr told Justice
Department investigators, Castillo was making a lot of
people nervous, including him, because his investigation

===== PDF PAGE 422 =====
had the potential to "destroy relationships with Salvadoran
officials that had taken so long to build."
Worried, Corr sent a secret "back channel" cable to the
State Department requesting an internal DEA review of
Castillo's allegations. The DEA, he said, informed him that
"a lot of [Castillo's] information was just totally inaccurate"
and Castillo soon was "told by his superiors to close his
investigation. . .and move onto something else." But Corr
said the headstrong agent "continued to snoop around the
airport and make allegations" until the Ambassador was
personally forced to take matters in hand.
Corr said he ordered Castillo to "stop the witch hunt" and
warned him that "they were dealing with a very sensitive
matter and Castillo would have to take care not to make
false allegations." Just what was false about the allegations
Castillo was investigating isn't clear; indeed, most of his
information has since been corroborated by the CIA and
the traffickers.
Castillo now suspects that the Costa Rican DEA cable
alerting him to Contra drug trafficking at the two hangars
was less a request for him to investigate it than a way to
cover the DEA office in Costa Rica in case his
investigation got anywhere. Since Castillo had been
sending his Contra drug reports to Washington for months,
it is likely they were being shared with Nieves, the top DEA
official in the country where the drug flights were allegedly
originating.
If, as Meneses aide Miranda claims, the Ilopango
operation was part of Meneses's drug pipeline into the
United States, Castillo's probe might have raised some
very sticky questions about how well the DEA was
monitoring its top-level informant.
Denied access to the military side of Ilopango, Castillo

===== PDF PAGE 423 =====
settled on another tactic: he would hit an off-base location
linked to the Ilopango operation. He and his informants
zeroed in on a likely suspect: a New York weapons dealer
and U.S. military contractor named Walter "Wally"
Grasheim. The tall, bearded arms broker was the
Salvadoran sales representative for the Litton Corp. and
other American weapons makers, and had a booming
business selling night vision goggles, Steyer sniper rifles,
and assorted other gear to the Salvadoran military. He was
also advising and training Salvadoran army units in long-
range reconnaisance operations on behalf of the U.S.
government. One of Castillo's informants at Ilopango told
him Grasheim was intimately involved with the Contra drug
operation there, and Castillo claims that DEA computers
turned up several references to Grasheim as a suspected
drug trafficker.
On September 1, 1986, Salvadoran police working with
Castillo raided Grasheim's elegant hillside home in San
Salvador. A pound of marijuana was reportedly found, but
that was nothing compared to what else was in the place.
"Some of the rooms in the house had munitions and
explosives piled to the ceiling, including automatic
weapons, M-16's, hand grenades and C-4 [plastic
explosives]," Castillo later told the FBI. "The raid at
Grasheim's house uncovered Embassy license plates,
radios and ID's in Grasheim's name. Castillo. . .showed
Grasheim's U.S. Embassy ID to the interviewer."
Grasheim, who says the weapons were legally his,
strenuously denied he had anything to do with either the
Contras or drugs and believes Castillo was duped by his
informants, whom he says were secretly working for the
CIA. "The Agency put Castillo onto me as a way of getting
him away from whatever it was they were doing at

===== PDF PAGE 424 =====
Ilopango," Grasheim insisted in an interview. "The person
who claimed I was a drug trafficker was on the payroll of the
CIA. I've never been involved with drugs in my life." The
marijuana found at his house, Grasheim said, probably
belonged to a U.S. Army colonel who was a frequent visitor.
According to the Justice Department Inspector General's
report, Grasheim is not entirely wrong. Castillo's informant,
the ever-helpful Murga, was indeed working for the CIA and
had been for quite some time. And soon after he put
Castillo on Grasheim's trail—fingering him as "head of
smuggling operations at Ilopango"—the CIA decided to
take Murga back.
Castillo's boss, Robert Stia, "recalled being asked by the
CIA station chief in El Salvador to relinquish the use of
informant STG6. The Station Chief had explained that the
CIA had established the informant before he had ever
worked for the DEA" and wanted the DEA to stop using
him because "he was currently a CIA informant." Stia
complied, but complained internally that the CIA had cost
the DEA a valuable asset.
Though Castillo's 1986 investigation was killed, he
picked up word three years later that Hangar No. 5 at
Ilopango was once again being used for drug trafficking,
this time by members of the Salvadoran Air Force. He
opened up another investigation, much to the irritation of
U.S. Embassy personnel, who regarded Castillo with
hostility due to his "reputation as a man who is always
digging up things," the Justice Department Inspector
General reported.
This time the CIA intervened directly and refused to allow
Castillo to set foot on Ilopango. When Castillo asked how
he was supposed to investigate drug trafficking allegations
if he couldn't get on the airbase, a CIA officer told Castillo

===== PDF PAGE 425 =====
that it was "not necessary" because the CIA was on the
case. "The CIA Chief of Station assured [Castillo] that there
was no drug activity associated with Hangar No. 5," the
Justice's Inspector General wrote.
In an ironic turn of events, Castillo soon found himself
under investigation by the DEA. He spent the next five
years fending off accusations that he had gotten too close
to his Central American informants, accepted improper
gifts, inappropriately handled firearms, and a number of
other technical, administrative failures. Castillo's boss
complained to his superiors that the charges against
Castillo were unfair, and ultimately the DEA gave Castillo a
disability retirement. In his 1994 memoirs, he blamed the
fallout on his investigation of Ilopango.
The DEA declined to respond to questions about
Castillo, and in response to a Freedom of Information Act
request, it claimed it had no reports from Castillo about
drug trafficking at the Salvadoran air base. Like so much of
what the DEA has said about Castillo and Ilopango over
the years, that was a lie. The Justice Department Inspector
General had no trouble locating the agent's reports and
quoted from them liberally.
The quashing of Castillo's investigation ended any
official U.S. government interest in trafficking at Ilopango.
But the issue refused to stay buried. At the same time the
Contra drug pipeline in El Salvador was being hastily
covered back up, police officers thousands of miles away
in Los Angeles were starting to prying the covers off the
other end of it.
As one of them would sadly remark ten years later, they
had no idea what a Pandora's box they were opening.

===== PDF PAGE 426 =====
14

===== PDF PAGE 427 =====
"It's bigger than I can handle"
V
ictor Gill had no job and no business license, but for
some reason he found it necessary to buy eight money-
counting machines in the space of a month in early 1986.
To U.S. Customs agent Fred Ghio and IRS agent Karl
Knudsen, Gill might as well have been wearing a neon sign
that said, "Arrest Me!"
The two agents were on the prowl for money launderers.
A good way to find them, they reasoned, was to cheek with
companies that made cash-counting machines. One such
firm was the Glory Business Machine Co. in Bell, California,
a rundown suburb of Los Angeles that in better days had
been Hollywood gangster Mickey Cohen's stomping
grounds. After seeing how often Gill was visiting Glory, they
decided he could stand some scrutiny.
Ghio and Knudsen dropped by the Bell Police
Department to see if anyone there knew their quarry. As
luck would have it, the city of Bell's only narcotics detective,
Jerry Guzzetta, was on duty, and he knew Gill well. He'd
arrested him on cocaine charges a few years earlier and
was more than happy to help the two federal agents bust
him again. "You can't investigate money laundering without
getting into dope. There's just no way," Guzzetta said.
Jerry Guzzetta went after dopers with a vengeance, and
his one-man investigations had produced some impressive
results. In November 1985 he'd been the subject of a
glowing piece in the 
Los Angeles Times
 for his work in
taking down a large Colombian trafficking ring. Some of his
fellow officers regarded him as a loose cannon and a
publicity hound, always trying to make a name for himself.
But his friends said Guzzetta's zeal was largely

===== PDF PAGE 428 =====
misunderstood.
"He hated dope dealers. He hated them with a vehement
passion, because a dope dealer had killed his brother, and
that's one of the things that spurred him to go after these
people so aggressively," Officer Tom McReynolds said.
"In a sense, a drug dealer killed my entire family,"
Guzzetta said. "After the guy shot my brother in the head,
my father died of a heart attack. And then my mother died a
couple years later. And he got off with two years for
involuntary manslaughter."
Knudsen and Ghio liked Guzzetta's enthusiasm, and they
invited him to join their surveillance of Gill. The trio soon
discovered that Gill was buying the money machines for
Colombian traffickers who didn't want their names turning
up on purchase orders. He was arrested and eventually
pleaded guilty to conspiracy charges.
It was the start of a mutually beneficial relationship for
Guzzetta and the two federal agents, who specialized in
money-laundering cases. For a small-town police
department like Guzzetta's, busting a money launderer was
an answered prayer, because the police got to keep a
percentage of the spoils.
After California voters passed Proposition 103, which
slashed local property taxes, many local police
departments became hooked on drug money, using asset
forfeiture laws to replace their lost tax revenues. Cash
seized from traffickers and money launderers began being
used to pay officers' salaries, for overtime, new patrol ears,
uniforms, guns, and even helicopters.
The cash-strapped Bell PD was delighted to loan
Guzzetta out to work with the federal agents. They would
find the suspects, Guzzetta would help with surveillance and
the search warrants, and afterward the city of Bell and the

===== PDF PAGE 429 =====
federal government would divvy up the booty—a win-win
situation all the way around.
The trio "did some very good work together at first," Ghio
said. "[We] took a lot of dope off the streets and seized a
lot of cash." He said Guzzetta "became somewhat a local
hero. He got a lot of recognition from his fellow officers, the
public, and the Bell City Council, mainly due to the funds
they got through asset sharing, which was generated from
the seized cash."
Later that summer IRS agent Knudsen received
notifications from two L.A. banks about a pair of customers
who were making large cash deposits on a regular basis,
officially known as "suspicious transactions." Banks
routinely report them to the IRS. "They did a bank account
check and found out [the customers] had no visible means
of support but had over $1 million in the bank," Guzzetta
said. The federal agents approached Guzzetta and asked
him if he wouldn't mind helping out "because one of the
banks was in the city of Bell and I had a good rapport with
[the bank officers]."
Guzzetta began tailing the two depositors, which was
easy because they stood out in a crowd. They were the
Trees—Jacinto and Edgar Torres, Danilo Blandón's
gigantic associates. The Torres brothers were running all
over L.A., picking up packages, dropping off packages,
making strange nighttime trips into South Central Los
Angeles.
Jacinto, Guzzetta discovered, was on probation for
cocaine possession. That, combined with the bank
accounts, the surveillance, and the lack of employment,
provided all the ammunition he needed to get a search
warrant for the addresses the Torres brothers had been
visiting. On August 11, 1986, Guzzetta and his federal

===== PDF PAGE 430 =====
friends raided them—and they hit the jackpot.
"We found $400,000 in the closet of one of the houses,"
Guzzetta said. "That was their spare change." But the
Torreses were too smart to mix their money with their
cocaine. Like their friend Blandón, they kept the two far
apart, hidden in nondescript rental houses around the city.
The raid produced not an ounce of dope.
Guzzetta said the brothers disclaimed ownership of the
$400,000 and handed it over to the feds, which satisfied
Ghio and Knudsen. "They'd seized some money, cleared
some paper, and made their bosses happy. They weren't
interested in prosecuting them federally because all they
really had them on was a currency violation. Even if they
were convicted they'd have pulled three years and been out
in a year and a half," Guzzetta said.
But Guzzetta wasn't willing to just turn the brothers loose.
If he couldn't put them away, he'd put them to work—for the
police.
As imposing as they were, the Torreses had an Achilles
heel that Guzzetta and the federal agents skillfully exploited:
their live-in girlfriends, who were close relatives of Medellín
cartel boss Pablo Escobar. (In a 1996 interview, Norwin
Meneses confirmed the relationship between the women
and Escobar.)
Guzzetta said the Torreses were informed that no
charges would be filed against them, but their girlfriends
would be prosecuted on conspireacy and tax evasion
charges, imprisoned, and then deported as undesirable
aliens who would never be allowed to set foot in the United
States again.
To the rest of the world, it would seem like the brothers
had sacrificed their women to save themselves, offending
traditional Latin machismo. Even worse, it would appear as

===== PDF PAGE 431 =====
if they'd ratted out two of the cocaine lord's relatives. "You
give up Pablo Escobar's family, and you're dead," Guzzetta
chuckled. "So we turned them."
To keep the brothers on a short leash, it was arranged
with the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office for
the Torreses to plead guilty to drug charges under false
names. They were given suspended sentences, put on
probation, and turned over to Guzzetta, who was assigned
as their sole law enforcement contact to minimize their
chances of exposure.
"They were scared to death," Guzzetta said. "They
believed very strongly, and I agreed with them, that if
anyone found out they were informants—including their
girlfriends—they'd be killed in a minute."
During a debriefing on August 22, 1986, the Torreses
told Guzzetta that they were convinced their girlfriends had
already hired a couple of assassins. They told the detective
they would check in with him every twenty-four hours to let
him know they were still alive. "The informants advise that if.
. .they are found dead in some other location, that it was
their girlfriends who had contracted their killing," Guzzetta's
report stated. "The informants relate that if, in fact, they are
found dead, that the method which would probably be used
upon them is a lethal injection of drugs, which will show up
as a drug overdose."
Guzzetta and the federal agents began debriefing the
brothers, and slowly, like an ocean liner emerging from a
fog bank, the size of the operation they were part of began
to take shape.
It was mind-boggling.
They revealed a drug ring that was dumping hundreds of
kilos of cocaine every week into the black neighborhoods
of Los Angeles, generating truckloads of cash. "The CI

===== PDF PAGE 432 =====
[confidential informant] has admitted laundering
approximately $100 million since Jan. 1986," Customs
agent Ghio wrote a few days after the debriefings began.
"They currently have approximately 1,000 kilos of cocaine
currently stored in the Los Angeles area as well as between
$250,000,000 and $500,000,000 secreted in various
locations locally that they have been unable to get out of the
U.S."
Guzzetta said he initially doubted the brothers' story.
Crooks trying to wiggle out of a jam often made extragavant
claims, but this took the cake. No one he had questioned
claimed to have a half a 
billion
 dollars stashed somewhere.
"These guys were right off the street. They had absolutely
no credibility as far as I was concerned," Guzzetta recalled.
To prove what they were saying, the Torres brothers
invited Guzzetta and his friends to follow them while they
made their rounds, dropping off dope and picking up cash
from their customers in South Central Los Angeles. "The
reliability of the CI has been substantiated," Ghio reported
to his bosses a few days later. "Under the control of Det.
Guzzetta, Bell, P.D., the CI has picked up and delivered 40
kilos of cocaine and collected and delivered $720,000."
Within two weeks, Guzzetta wrote, he had "observed the
movement of monies totaling $750,000, $230,000,
$130,000, $150,000 respectively, which have been moved
by informants and picked up from the Black market area."
Guzzetta began compiling his debriefing notes into a
series of reports he titled "Project Sahara," because he
figured the Torreses could help dry up the cocaine supply in
South Central. Portions of his Project Sahara reports were
located by police investigators ten years later, in 1996.
"Basically, there is one major market which informant
36210 and 36211 are dealing with, which for the sake of

===== PDF PAGE 433 =====
argument in this report will be designated the Black market,
because it is solely controlled by two male Negroes by the
name of Rick and Ollie," Guzzetta wrote in his first report.
Guzzetta listened gape-mouthed as the brothers rattled
off names, dates, delivery sites, and routes of
transportation. The two black dealers in South Central, they
reported, "are generating a conservative figure of
approximately $10 million dollars a month."
The Torreses told him that the blacks were getting their
cocaine from three Colombians and "a fourth peripheral
source." Two of the Colombians, they knew only by
nickname; the "peripheral source" they knew quite well:
Danilo Blandón.
"Informants relate that Danilo Blandón is extremely
dangerous because of his access to information," Guzzetta
wrote, "and further, is extremely dangerous because of his
potential to override the informants' market, thus cutting off
the informants from the supply source of cocaine and
currency, thus cutting off the informants' source of
information."
Guzzetta said the brothers told him that Blandón had "a
lot of inside information as to law enforcement activity, as to
people that are working him," and they warned him to "be
extremely careful about releasing any information to other
law enforcement agencies. . .because they were afraid that
Blandón had somebody inside the police department or
whatever that was feeding him information."
Ricky Ross confirmed that Blandón had an uncanny
ability to accurately predict upcoming police raids but said
he was never able to explain Blandón's clairvoyance.
The Torres brothers told Guzzetta that "Blandón is
working with an ex-Laguna Beach police officer by the
name of Ronnie, who lives in an expensive house in

===== PDF PAGE 434 =====
Mission Viejo and drives a new Mercedes automobile. . ..
Ronnie transported 100 kilos of cocaine to the Black
market and has transported millions of dollars to Miami for
Danilo Blandón." Once Blandón's cash arrived in Florida,
the brothers reported, a relative of Blandón's, Orlando
Murillo, would launder it. They described Murillo as "a bank
chairman under Somoza prior to his being thrown out of
power."
Roberto Orlando Murillo, the uncle of Blandón's wife, was
an influential Nicaraguan economist who'd been appointed
by President Somoza in 1978 to the Central Bank of
Nicaragua, which is similar in function to the U.S. Federal
Reserve Bank. The debonair investment banker was also
the official representative of two Swiss banks located in
Panama and Managua, and had managed a number of the
Somoza family's businesses before the revolution.
It was when the Trees started talking about Murillo and
the Contras—and the airfields in New Orleans and
Brownsville, Texas, where Contra cocaine was allegedly
being flown in under armed guard—that Guzzetta knew he
was way out of his league.
Even if only half of what the Torreses were saying was
true, the detective realized, he was up against an
organization that could roll over a small-town cop like he
was a bug. "I took it to the chief of police. I told the chief, 'It's
bigger than I can handle. These guys are talking about
millions of dollars in cocaine, they're talking about a
Nicaraguan [leader] named Calero being involved in this,
Colombian families that strike fear into the hearts of mortal
men. I can't handle this by myself.'"
Mis chief, Frank Fording, asked him if he would mind
teaming up with one of the L.A. County Sheriff's Major
Violators squads, the "Majors," as the elite units were

===== PDF PAGE 435 =====
known.
Guzzetta didn't mind at all. In fact, he was thrilled by the
prospect. "The Majors were hot shit," Guzzetta said. "They
had all the resources, they had the funding, they had the
manpower, they had the surveillance equipment, the night
vision stuff, the helicopters, the overtime. They had
everything."
They were semilegendary in L.A. law enforcement circles
as the best the 8,000-man sheriff's department had to offer.
Any cop with the slightest amount of ambition lusted for an
assignment to the Majors. They got the biggest eases,
seized the largest amounts of cash and cocaine, got the
fattest overtime checks, and worked virtually unsupervised.
As L.A. defense attorney Jay Lichtman put it: "This was
really the cream of the crop, the elite, the top officers of the
Sheriff's Department." They were considered some of the
best drug detectives in the nation.
They also won notoriety for their boozy off-duty carousing.
A drunken crew member had once pulled out a pistol at a
restaurant to hurry along a lazy waiter. On another occasion
Deputy Daniel Garner, regarded as the best drug detective
in the department, relieved himself on the pants leg of an
aspiring narcotics officer Garner deemed unworthy of
joining the Majors.
The squads—Majors I, II, and III—worked out of trailers at
the Whittier and Lennox stations, each team of seven or
eight detectives commanded by a sergeant. Guzzetta was
put together with Majors II, headed by Sergeant Edward
Huffman, whose brother was a friend of Guzzetta's.
"Huffman was great," Guzzetta said. "A real straight arrow."
Guzzetta gathered up his "Project Sahara" reports and
delivered them to the Majors, where they landed on the
desk of Detective Thomas Gordon, a tall, soft-spoken

===== PDF PAGE 436 =====
officer who had spent sixteen years with the Los Angeles
County Sheriff's Department.
By 1986, Tom Gordon had become a hard man to
impress. Since 1982 he and his cohorts on the Majors had
been tangling with the biggest criminals L.A. had to offer:
the Mexican mafia, the gangbangers, Medellín cartel cells,
international money launderers. But "Project Sahara" had a
bit of everything, and it had an element the Majors had
never before faced—a CIA-linked guerrilla army that was
allegedly dealing in dope. There was no telling where this
investigation could take them. Former lieutenant Mike
Fossey, the unit supervisor and intelligence officer for the
Majors II squad, called it one of the biggest cases he'd ever
handled.
One of its main attractions was that it would provide the
law enforcement community with a wealth of information on
the inner workings of the L.A. crack market. Though the
crack epidemic had been raging in South Central for three
years by then, drug agents still had very little understanding
of its dynamics.
They knew the street gangs that dominated the trade
rarely left their own neighborhoods, which meant that
somehow, someone was bringing in massive amounts of
cocaine and delivering it to them. But no one—from the
DEA on clown—had been able to figure out where it was
coming from, who was importing it, or who was reselling it
to the gangs.
Many narcotics detectives assumed that the normal rules
of the drug trade—where one or two major drug rings
control a "turf"—didn't apply to crack, because the
marketplace appeared so disorganized and fragmented.
There were crack dealers everywhere, on every corner. The
problem seemed uncontrollable.

===== PDF PAGE 437 =====
"We haven't encountered any major network. We're
conducting these little skirmishes. It's very frustrating," one
narcotics detective complained to the 
Los Angeles Times
in early August 1986. Robert Stutman, the head of the DEA
office in New York in the mid-1980s, wrote that "the
marketing of crack was thought to be a cottage industry, a
low-level blip in the drug trade like the selling of single
marijuana cigarettes."
But that was only because the cops had never gotten
much beyond the streets. In June 1986, DEA intelligence
revealed that "what looked like independent street corner
pushers were actually the bottom rung of carefully managed
organizations," Stutman wrote in his 1992 memoirs. "It
came as a revelation."
Analyzing the information provided by the Torres
brothers, the Majors reached the same frightening
conclusion. The L.A. crack market, they realized, was far
more disciplined and well organized than anyone had ever
dreamed.
And worse, through these two mystery dealers named
Rick and Ollie, it appeared that the gangs had established
a direct pipeline to the Colombian cartels, which meant
they had access to as much cocaine as they could sell.
Since the circle was so small, it was little wonder that its
bosses had escaped detection for so many years.
It had been one long cop-free party, but it was coming to
an end. The Majors now had the names and addresses of
everyone at the top of the distribution chain, from the
Colombian importers to the Nicaraguan middlemen to the
black wholesalers who controlled the South Central
marketplace. If everything went right, Gordon and his men
could take down the biggest crack operation ever
uncovered—one whose tentacles reached all the way to

===== PDF PAGE 438 =====
South America—and cut off the L.A. ghettos' main source
of supply.
"This was going to be my last hurrah," said Gordon, who
was scheduled to be rotated out of the Majors in a few
months. "Like anyone, I've got an ego, and I wanted to go
out with a bang."

===== PDF PAGE 439 =====
15

===== PDF PAGE 440 =====
"This thing is a tidal wave"
T
hat summer, three years after crack exploded in South
Central L.A., the national news media finally figured out M
what was happening.
Within weeks of each other in May 1986, NBC News,
People
 magazine, and the Associated Press trumpeted
the news that a deadly new drug plague was stalking the
countryside. According to Tom Brokaw, crack was
"flooding America." The AP, in a special weekend feature,
said "crack is becoming the nation's drug of choice,"
spreading "like wildfire." The 
New York Times
 drew a
picture of "a wave of crack addicts" engulfing the city,
spreading "prostitution and other crimes."
Then came the cataclysmic event that is needed to
convert any problem into a National Disaster: celebrity
deaths. Two well-known black athletes dropped dead from
cocaine abuse.
What Richard Pryor did for freebase, college basketball
star Len Bias and pro football player Don Rogers did for
crack. With their deaths in June 1986, crack went from
being a long-ignored problem in a few black
neighborhoods to "a threat to our national security," as one
U.S. senator described it. Before the year was out, 
Time
and 
Newsweek
 would run five cover stories apiece on crack
and the drug war; 
Newsweek
 would anoint it as the biggest
story since Vietnam and Watergate. 
Time
 said it was the
"Issue of the Year." By November NBC News alone had run
more than 400 stories on the topic.
As with most drug stories, the mainstream reporting
tended to be half-baked, or just plain wrong. The coverage
"followed a typical pattern in which exaggerated claims

===== PDF PAGE 441 =====
were supported by carefully selected cases and fueled with
evocative words such as 'epidemic,' with its implications of
plague, disease, crisis and uncontrollable spread," drug
researchers Andrew Golub and Donna Hartman wrote in a
study of the media's role in the 1986 crack scare.
The Crack Attack began with a faulty premise, based
largely on the news media's myopia. Because there had
been few previous reports about crack, many editors
assumed that it hadn't existed until then, or they surely
would have heard about it. And now crack was seemingly
everywhere: in Houston, Detroit, Newark, New York,
Atlanta, Kansas City, San Francisco, Los Angeles. Thus,
the nation's editors and news directors concluded, crack
had spread from coast to coast 
overnight
. While we slept,
we had become the victims of a dastardly sneak attack—a
kind of chemical Pearl Harbor.
That crack had been ravaging South Central L.A. since
1983 was not mentioned. None of the stories reported how
vast the L.A. crack market had become by the summer of
1986, or how enterprising Crips and Bloods were fanning
out across the country, introducing it into other black
neighborhoods in the West and Midwest, precisely as the
two USC sociologists Malcolm Klein and Cheryl Maxson
had predicted. The spread of crack by the L.A. gangs
would not become generally known for another two years.
Nor did the press notice that a similar migration had
been occurring on the East Coast for about eighteen
months, as the Jamaican posses and Dominican gangs
from Miami began expanding their markets westward. A
typical observation was contained in the 
Washington Post
of June 13, 1986, which reported that crack was "virtually
unheard of nine months ago on the East Coast." In the
Post's
 newsroom, perhaps.

===== PDF PAGE 442 =====
The only explanation a frightened and bewildered public
was given for this "sudden" deluge of crack was a modern-
day theory of spontaneous combustion, which holds that
people can simply burst into flames. "Crack hit our society
with a suddenness unprecedented in the history of illicit
drug use," Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia stated. "Literally
an overnight phenomenon, crack caught many police
agencies by surprise."
"Eight months ago I had never heard of crack," said
Senator Lawton Chiles of Florida, who would write the
harshest anticrack laws on the books. "This thing is a tidal
wave that has hit everywhere. . .. We are talking about a
phenomenon that basically has hit this country in the last
year, nine months, eight months, six months."
Representative Hamilton Fish of New York declared that
"nine months ago, addiction to crack was virtually unheard
of and today it's an epidemic, a plague, that is sweeping
the country."
If one believed the papers and the politicians, the crack
"epidemic" simply happened, and no one knew how or why.
During two well-publicized congressional hearings that
superheated summer, the government's top drug experts
and law enforcement officers lined up to proclaim their
official shock and surprise.
Top scientists at the National Institute on Drug Abuse
(NIDA) testified that the agency had never even heard of
crack until 1985, which is why it still had no information
about it a year later. "We have not had enough time elapse
since then for us to get epidemiological data about crack
use per se," NIDA official Charles Schuster explained. The
DEA's director of operations, David Westrate, said his
agency could only guess at how prevalent the problem was,
since "crack has emerged as a major drug problem in less

===== PDF PAGE 443 =====
than a year. As a result, data on usage, emergency room
mentions and arrests have not been focused on crack as
an individual category of drug abuse apart from cocaine."
Westrate confirmed that "there is no comprehensive
analysis of the crack problem, either from a health or
enforcement viewpoint. . .. DEA's own enforcement
information on crack is also incomplete."
Representative Benjamin Gilman of New York could
scarcely believe what he was hearing. "Well, of course you
are telling us that crack is just beginning to spread across
the country like wildfire in the past year. We have no current
data, is that correct?" Gilman asked the government
experts.
"I think it would be fair to say that we do not have any
accurate estimate at this time," replied Dr. Jerome Jaffe of
NIDA.
"Am I correct, then," Gilman continued, "that at this point
we really don't have any definitive knowledge of how
extensive the use of crack is in our country? With all of our
expertise? Is that right?"
"That's correct," admitted Edgar Adams, NIDA's head of
epidemiology and statistical analysis.
"Is that right, Dr. Jaffe?"
"That's fair."
Gilman looked at the DEA's representative. "Mr.
Westrate?"
"Yes, I would say especially with statistically valid
information."
But the government's experts weren't quite as ill-informed
as they claimed. There was a method to their ignorance.
Pretending that crack was something that had appeared
out of nowhere was, politically, much safer than admitting
the truth—that the federal government had been warned

===== PDF PAGE 444 =====
about it very specifically many years earlier and hadn't lifted
a finger to stop it, effectively surrendering the inner cities to
an oncoming plague. If that information became too widely
known, the public might start asking prickly questions, such
as: Why weren't we told?
And how could a question like that be answered?
Because we didn't believe it? Because we didn't care?
Because we thought it might encourage people to try it? Or
was it because the drug problem looked as if it would be
confined to lower-income neighborhoods, ghettos, as it had
been in South America, Jamaica, and the Bahamas?
Sitting in the audience at one of the congressional
hearings that summer of 1986, listening to all the official
excuses, was a man who knew the sorry truth better than
anyone: Dr. Robert Byck, Yale University's top cocaine
expert. It had been seven years since he had appeared
before Congress to sound the alarm about the approaching
drug plague, only to have his warnings ignored. He had no
intention of letting the government get away with the
charade he was witnessing.
"In 1979, I testified before the House Committee on
Narcotics Abuse and Control and I said that we were about
to have the worst epidemic of drug use this country had
ever seen, something like the speed epidemic of the
1960s, except on a national scale, and that it was going to
be the use of free-base cocaine," Byck said, hunching over
his microphone. "I begged people, and I begged people at
NIDA, for goodness sake, this is a chance to stop, if not to
stop it, at least to take a chance on an educational
campaign to avert a drug abuse epidemic. . .. This advice
went unheeded. We are not significantly more
knowledgeable about cocaine smoking. No educational
campaign was mounted. Today we are in the midst of the

===== PDF PAGE 445 =====
predicted epidemic."
DEA official Westrate hastened to assure Congress that
the drug agency was on full alert now: "DEA 
last week
began an extensive, in-depth intelligence survey through all
of the domestic field offices to try to discern the use and
availability of crack, its purity and its price." Westrate
mentioned that the administration's top drug experts were
meeting with President Reagan that very morning to
discuss crack.
Byck renewed his plea for research money so scientists
could get the answers they needed about crack use and
find some way to slow its spread. "I hope my testimony
today will have a greater effect than my warnings in 1979,"
Byck said bitterly.
It didn't.
"Every problem that comes before us, everybody says
that money is the answer," scoffed the committee
chairman, Senator William Roth of Delaware. "I think you
have to use it pretty intelligently and we don't have it in large
supply."
Instead of authorizing money for crack research and
educational campaigns, the congressmen voted for tougher
laws against crack dealing. If crack was more dangerous
than regular cocaine, they said, its sellers needed to be
dealt with much more severely. And that kind of medicine
didn't cost the federal government a cent—up front.
At least, that was the rationale behind one of the laws
Congress created that summer, the so-called 100-to-1
weight ratio, which would fill America's prisons with tens of
thousands of black street-corner crack peddlers and users
over the next decade without making a dent in the crack
problem. Under the 100-to-l ratio—a law Congress passed
without any hearings—crack dealers were singled out for

===== PDF PAGE 446 =====
particularly harsh punishment. The scales of justice became
so lopsided that a powder dealer had to sell $50,000 worth
of cocaine to get the same five-year mandatory sentence
as someone who'd sold $750 worth of crack. (As if crack
could be made without powder cocaine.)
It was, Byck said years later, absolutely senseless. "That
all comes from one of the congressmen, the one from
Florida, Lawton Chiles," he recalled. "Chiles was asking
me a question in which he stated something up front: 'Dr.
Byck, isn't it true [crack's] 50 times more addicting?' or
something like that. And I said, yes, and that 50 is the
number that got doubled by people who wanted to get
tough on cocaine and some expert's opinion on
addictiveness got translated into weight. . .. The numbers
are a fabrication of whoever wrote the law, but not reality."
As drug expert Steven Belenko of the New York City
Criminal Justice Agency later observed, "One interesting
aspect of the anti-crack crusade is that it occurred in the
presence of a real vacuum of knowledge about the drug."
Meanwhile, drug experts who were reading and hearing
about this "tidal wave" of crack began wondering which
planet the media was reporting from. When the scientists
looked around, they didn't see any epidemic, except for a
few hot spots here and there—specific neighborhoods in
Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Houston. It was certainly
not the grand nationwide epidemic the press was
portraying. A Chicago drug expert went so far as to call the
whole issue "a hoax."
"Researchers were finding crack to be, not a national
epidemic, but a phenomenon isolated to the inner cities of
less than a dozen urban areas," drug expert James Inciardi
observed in 1987. Even in New York, Inciardi wrote, "the
fact of the matter was that if you lived outside of

===== PDF PAGE 447 =====
Washington Heights, crack was just plain unavailable."
Belenko wrote that "during the period of strongest
concern over crack, 1986 to 1990, crack was actually the
least-used drug among all illicit drugs." In Miami, at the
supposed height of the crack epidemic there, cops running
a sting operation in Liberty City had to call it quits because
few cocaine customers wanted crack; they were looking for
powder. (It was a different story in South Central L.A., of
course. There, crack clearly was the drug of choice.)
But those who deviated from the official line of
nationwide crack pandemonium were ignored or chastised.
After NIDA officials called a press conference to announce
the good news that cocaine use appeared to be leveling
off, Senator Lawton Chiles sternly reprimanded the head of
NIDA, Charles Schuster. "What kind of message are we
sending out there, on the one hand, when we are saying
that it is an epidemic, you have your 
Newsweek
 story, you
have 
Time
 magazine, the 
New York Times
, you have
everybody in the world saying we have an epidemic, and
then along comes NIDA which says that the figures are
level, not to worry, and uses numbers that go back to
1982?" Chiles huffed. "Was it really necessary to call a
press conference?"
After finishing its review of local field offices, the DEA
initially sided with the scientists. "Crack is currently the
subject of considerable media attention. The result has
been a distortion of the public perception of the extent of
crack use as compared to the use of other drugs," the DEA
noted in an August 1986 press release. "Crack presently
appears to be a secondary rather than primary problem in
most areas."
The DEA's findings went virtually unreported; that kind of
news was not what the politicians or the media wanted to

===== PDF PAGE 448 =====
hear. But when DEA officials changed their tune and began
denouncing crack as the scourge of scourges, those
comments got plenty of ink and air time.
One truly remarkable thing about the crack scare was the
degree to which the national press—particularly the 
New
York Times—
walked in lockstep with the federal
government on the issue, fanning the flames of hysteria and
unquestioningly parroting the official line, a media
phenomenon usually seen only in times of armed conflict.
While First Lady Nancy Reagan was off on a world
antidrug tour in the spring of 1986, the 
Times
 began almost
daily reporting on the "growing public outcry over the
spread of crack." Throughout July and August, the 
Times
featured leaks from "White House sources" who confided
that the president himself was taking this crack issue very
seriously. Television news was a steady barrage of hair-
raising stories. (Years later, Nancy Reagan would pine for
what she called "the steady drumbeat" of antidrug stories
produced by the government/media partnership.)
Robert Stutman, chief of the New York DEA office, would
later admit that the crack panic of 1986 had been largely
his creation. He didn't think the Justice Department was
taking the issue seriously enough so "to speed up the
process of convincing Washington, I needed to make it a
national issue and quickly. I began a lobbying effort and I
used the media. Reporters were only too willing to
cooperate, because as far as the New York media was
concerned, crack was the hottest combat-reporting story to
come along since the end of the Vietnam War." By the end
of August, Stutman noted, the "groundwork that had been
carefully laid through press accounts and my own public
appearances" had produced incredible results: 
Newsweek
was calling crack "a national scandal" and the New York

===== PDF PAGE 449 =====
papers were blaming every crime on crackheads. "Crack
was a national menace," Stutman wryly observed in his
memoirs, "and 1986 was the Year of Crack."
The PR campaign worked so well that the 
New York
Times
 was reporting a "frenzy in Washington over drugs."
The "frenzy" created a bonanza for the media. CBS News'
48 Hours on Crack Street
, which aired in the fall of 1986, is
still one of the highest-rated TV documentaries in history. A
New York Times—
CBS News poll done in early
September showed that 13 percent of the American public
considered drugs America's number-one problem; five
months earlier, only 2 percent had felt that way, a
remarkable shift in public attitude in a very short time.
For politicians facing critical midterm elections a few
months down the road, the crack panic had been heaven-
sent. Lashing out at crack and crack dealers was a
painless way to get a lot of free publicity, a perfect issue for
any politician—almost too perfect. "Crack could not have
appeared at a more opportune political moment. After
years of dull debates on budget balancing, a 'hot' issue had
arrived just in time for a crucial election," professors Craig
Reinarman and Harry Levine wrote in the journal
Contemporary Drug Problems
.
In their analysis of media coverage during the crack
panic, drug researchers Golub and Hartman found that
most of the information appearing in the 
New York Times,
Newsweek
, and 
Time
 came from two types of sources:
cops and politicians. Drug researchers or academics were
quoted much less frequently. The 
New York Times
, in
particular, showed a remarkable aversion to experts: fewer
than one in ten 
Times
 stories about crack carried an expert
opinion. "It is interesting to note that the top two sources—
law enforcement and public officials—are among those

===== PDF PAGE 450 =====
who stand to gain the most from a drug panic," Golub and
Hartman observed.
The crack hysteria continued unabated through the
elections until something else arose to divert the public's
attention. "It was not until the revelations about Lieutenant
Colonel Oliver L. North and the Iran-Contra connection
toward the close of 1986 that crack media coverage
experienced significant declines," drug researcher Inciardi
wrote.
Law enforcement seemed to lose interest as quickly as
the public, although the crack problem remained as fierce
as ever. In October 1986, about a week after the Iran-
Contra scandal began, the 
L.A. Times
 carried a story
inside the paper about the LAPD "quietly disbanding" its
thirty-two-member anticrack task force in South Central Los
Angeles. Chief Darrell Gates told the 
Times
 that the task
force was needed "in other parts of the city" but assured
the residents of inner-city L.A. that they were not being
abandoned because "conventional law enforcement efforts
will continue."
As the Reverend Charles Mims, a South Central
minister, observed, "It seems illogical to move this task
force from what most everybody grants is the most active
rock cocaine area on earth."
Just how quickly the crack problem was forgotten by the
Reagan administration was demonstrated when DEA
director Jack Lawn—following up on Reagan's pledge to
crack down on crack—asked for $44 million to hire an
additional 200 agents to focus solely on crack. The Justice
Department's budget committee rejected his request.
"They didn't treat it like a major issue," a surprised Lawn
told 
U.S. News and World Report
. The magazine identified
the Justice Department official responsible for that decision

===== PDF PAGE 451 =====
as Associate Attorney General Stephen S. Trott.
By then, however, Steve Trott had bigger worries than
inner-city crackheads: he had Iran-Contra to deal with. Not
only was Congress screaming about North and beginning
to scrutinize the Justice Department's involvement in the
scandal, but Trott was monitoring a pesky Senate
investigation into allegations of Contra drug trafficking. Trott
viewed this probe with considerable agitation. Oliver North
and the FBI were also keenly interested in its progress,
North's notebooks reveal.
The administration's concern was understandable. By the
spring of 1986, the Contras were almost out of money.
While North and his agents were able to replace some of
the Contras' lost CIA funding with donations from Saudi
Arabia and Taiwan, the amounts were only a fraction of
what it took to keep the Contras trained, armed, fed, and
fighting. Reagan administration and CIA officials estimated
that their monthly food bill alone was between $1 million
and $2 million. Some estimated the annual cost of the
Contra war to be $100 million to $200 million.
In March 1986 the White House began lobbying
Congress to turn the money spigots back on and put the
CIA back in charge, and to overtly provide what it truly cost
to fight the Sandinistas: $100 million a year. The early
indications were that Congress was willing to consider the
matter seriously.
But then Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts and his
staff started making noises about the Contras being
involved with cocaine. They had been interviewing
mercenaries, former Contras, and Cuban-American
sympathizers, making trips to Costa Rica and Miami,
talking to foreign officials and federal prosecutors. They
started pushing for an official investigation of Contra

===== PDF PAGE 452 =====
connections to drug traffickers. With the public's crack
hysteria at a fever pitch, a more deadly or untimely
accusation could not have been made against the Contras,
and the Reagan administration knew it.
"The obvious intent of Senator Kerry is to try to
orchestrate a series of sensational accusations against the
Contras in order to obtain massive press coverage at
about the time of the next Contra aid vote," Trott was
informed in a May 1986 memo from the Justice
Department's congressional liaison. "It will be Senator
Kerry's intention to try and twist facts and circumstances in
order to unjustifiably defame the Justice Department, the
Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Drug Enforcement
Administration. Indeed, we have been informed that
Senator Kerry will take every opportunity to make the
implication or express claim that there is a conspiracy
within the Administration to cover up illegal activities of the
Contras and their supporters." The fact that Kerry, a former
federal prosecutor, had been an outspoken opponent of
Contra aid made Reagan administration officials even
more distrustful.
By June 1986 Kerry's staff had compiled enough
information for the senator to approach his colleagues on
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and seek
authorization for an official investigation. According to a
transcript of that secret meeting, Kerry warned the
assembled senators that some of what he was about to tell
them "strains credulity at moments in time and it strained
my credulity. When I first heard this stuff, I said 'I do not
believe this, you know? It cannot be true.'"
But after talking to many current and former Contras,
Kerry said, there was ample evidence to suggest that the
Contra leaders were corrupt, dealing in drugs and

===== PDF PAGE 453 =====
weapons, using their supply lines to run both, and that some
U.S. government officials were protecting them. "We can
produce specific law enforcement officials who will tell you
that they have been called off drug trafficking investigations
because CIA is involved or because it would threaten
national security or because the State Department did not
want it to happen," Kerry told the committee. "Our sources
have suggested in direct testimony that agencies of the
United States government may be failing to stop or punish
those engaging in these criminal activities because those
individuals are otherwise engaged in helping United States
foreign policy."
Kerry warned: "When the State Department begins to
say that we should not be pursuing the drug trafficking
because it would threaten our national security, this
committee ought to understand why we are making a
decision that it is okay to have drugs coming into this
country."
Kerry's chief investigator, Washington, D.C., attorney
Jack Blum, detailed some of the charges Kerry's staff had
looked into and told the senators that "the narcotics are
coming into the United States not by the pound, not by the
bag, but by the ton, by the cargo planeload."
And, Kerry added, the leadership of the FDN knew about
it and was involved in it. "It is clear that there is a network of
drug trafficking through the Contras, and it goes right up to
Calero, Mario Calero, Adolfo Calero, Enrique Bermúdez.
And we have people who will so testify and who have," he
said.
But the idea of diving into such a stinking swamp made
some of the other senators squeamish. Senator Joe Biden
of Delaware warned that "we should understand that this
thing may take us places we would have rather not gone.

===== PDF PAGE 454 =====
But we should be aware of it and I think there is no choice
but to go there." Senator Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas
said she didn't think the committee had the authority to get
into the issue. Instead of holding hearings or subpoenaing
records, she suggested an alternative approach: "It seems
to me that we should be able somehow to really work with
the CIA, the DEA. There are channels, it seems to me, that
have that ability."
Kerry almost laughed. "Well, let me say that I would be
amazed if the CIA were to be very cooperative in this," he
said. "We had a meeting with the CIA, Justice Department.
. .. CIA jumped out of their seats at some of the stuff that
they heard we were thinking about looking at. I mean, they
just literally jumped out of their seats. They were amazed
that we were going to look at this stuff."
At the request of Foreign Relations Committee chairman
Senator Richard Lugar of Indiana, Kerry gave the
committee a list of areas that needed investigation. Among
them: "The murder of Dr. Hugo Spottiforo [sic] by contras
engaged in drug smuggling in Costa Rica"; "An ongoing
drug smuggling operation connecting Colombia, Costa
Rica, Nicaragua and the United States, in which Contras
and American supporters, with the apparent knowledge of
Contra leadership, handled the transport of cocaine
produced in Colombia, shipped to Costa Rica, process
[ed] in the region, transported to airstrips controlled by
American supporters of the Contras and Contras, and
distributed in the U.S."; and "Allegations [that] have also
surfaced regarding other drug smuggling operations
involving shrimp boats operating out of Texas, Louisiana
and Florida."
The Foreign Relations Committee voted to approve
Kerry's request for a behind-the-scenes investigation, but

===== PDF PAGE 455 =====
grudgingly, and the Republican staff members on the
committee kept the Reagan administration fully informed of
what the investigators were unearthing. Those timely tips
allowed the Justice Department to head off attempts to
obtain certain records, or interview certain witnesses.
When Kerry's investigators sought to interview Contra
drug dealer Carlos Cabezas about the San Francisco
Frogman case, the Justice Department announced that he
couldn't possibly be questioned, since he was going to be
a federal witness in an upcoming drug trial. Cabezas said
that was "bullshit. I was never a witness in that case. They
just didn't want anyone talking to me."
Justice Department official Mark Richard later admitted
in a deposition that the department "was seemingly just
stonewalling. . .. DEA was saying they won't do it. They
didn't want to respond. They didn't want to provide any
information." But some information trickled out anyway. And
it got awfully close to exposing the Norwin Meneses-Danilo
Blandón drug operation.
In the spring of 1986, 
San Francisco Examiner
 reporter
Seth Rosenfeld broke the story of the Frogman case,
exposing the Justice Department's bizarre handling of the
$36,000 found in Julio Zavala's nightstand in 1983. It also
reported Zavala's claim, from a prison cell in Arizona, that
he had personally delivered about $500,000 in drug profits
to the Contras in Costa Rica. Rosenfeld also unearthed
Carlos Cabezas's long-buried testimony about selling
Horacio Pereira's cocaine to raise money for the Contra
revolution.
Coming on the heels of several Associated Press
reports by Robert Parry and Brian Barger about Contra
cocaine trafficking in Costa Rica, Rosenfeld's story
provided the first hard evidence of a Contra drug ring

===== PDF PAGE 456 =====
operating in the United States. The Associated Press
picked up the story, and several other newspapers printed
it, but cautiously, burying it deep inside the paper and
surrounded by plenty of official denials. Nonetheless, the
Reagan administration reacted with fury.
San Francisco U.S. attorney Joseph Russoniello mailed
a four-page letter to the 
Examiner
's editor, calling
Rosenfeld's work "one of the most blatant attempts at
contrived news-making we have witnessed in recent
years," and suggesting that it was a political stunt to harm
the Contras' chances of getting aid from Congress. Though
Rosenfeld never made the charge, Russoniello indignantly
wrote that "there is absolutely no evidence of CIA
involvement." Incredibly, he made the same claim
regarding the Contras. "There is no evidence to warrant the
insinuation the defendants were connected to the Contras
except. . .their own statements offered after the fact of
arrest and in a futile attempt to explain away their own
conduct."
Russoniello did not disclose that Carlos Cabezas—as a
witness for Russoniello's office—had testified about selling
dope for the Contras under oath in 1984. Nor did he
mention that two high-ranking UDN-FARN officials had
written letters to the court attesting to Zavala's official
position in the Contra organization. He also forgot about
the 1982 FBI teletypes that named Contra officials
Fernando and Troilo Sanchez as the drug ring's suppliers.
In a White Paper subsequently circulated to Congress by
the U.S. State Department, Zavala and Cabezas were
portrayed as liars and opportunists, and Rosenfeld's story
was dismissed as malarkey.
One-upping Russoniello, the State Department claimed
that Cabezas and Zavala had never said anything about the

===== PDF PAGE 457 =====
Contras until "long after their conviction. . .. [They] did not
raise these issues as a defense in their trial or at
sentencing but waited two years before making these
allegations, which, as indicated, could not be confirmed."
Congress was assured that "DEA has examined
allegations of linkages between members of the
UNO/FARN and suspected traffickers. It has found no
information indicating that members of this group have
been involved in narcotics trafficking."
But it couldn't have been looking very hard. In April 1986,
a UPI story featured an interview with former Contra official
Leonardo Zeledon Rodriguez, who said he was beaten,
paralyzed, and left for dead because he had denounced
Contra involvement in drug dealing. Zeledon specifically
identified Norwin Meneses's partner, Troilo Sanchez, as
being involved and said Sanchez had been arrested for
cocaine trafficking in Costa Rica.
Then, a month before the State Department White Paper
was sent to Congress, Rosenfeld had another major front-
page story in the 
Examiner
, exposing Norwin Meneses's
cocaine trafficking network and his involvement with the
FDN in San Francisco and Los Angeles. Rosenfeld
reported on Meneses's meetings with CIA agents Enrique
Bermúdez and Adolfo Calero and other Contra leaders. He
reported that the FDN's spokesman in San Francisco had
been convicted of cocaine charges. He disclosed
Meneses's donations at FDN fund-raisers.
The Meneses story was considerably more damaging to
the Contras than the Frogman story because it directly
involved the CIA's primary army, the FDN, with a major
international cocaine and arms trafficker. Yet it drew no
response from the administration, no angry denunciations
from federal prosecutors. The State Department's White

===== PDF PAGE 458 =====
Paper—which belittled every other allegation of Contra
drug trafficking that had surfaced in the past year—
studiously avoided any mention of Meneses and his well-
connected gang. And it wasn't just the government that was
keeping mum.
Though the 
Examiner
's expose appeared just two days
before the House of Representatives was scheduled to
take up the highly controversial issue of Reagan's $100
million Contra aid package, not a single major newspaper
in the country touched the Meneses story. It drew nothing
but silence, almost as if it had never appeared.
After Kerry Committee lawyer Jack Blum saw the
Examiner
's stories, he asked the Justice Department to
turn over its files on Meneses and the long-closed Frogman
case. He ran into a buzzsaw, he said. "We had a terrible,
terrible time getting information about Meneses from the
fellow who was the U.S. attorney out there at the time,
Russoniello, who was as rabid a right-wing true believer as
ever came down the road and who was bound and
determined to prevent anyone from learning anything about
that case," said Blum. "He and the Justice Department
flipped out to prevent us from getting access to people,
records, finding anything out about it. It was one of the most
frustrating exercises I can ever recall." Blum said Kerry and
Russoniello got into "a screaming match" over the
telephone.
On October 15, 1986, the controversy over the Frogman
files reached Oliver North's ears. "46 boxes of transcripts of
SF Frogman case," North wrote in his diary. "Justice never
provided."

===== PDF PAGE 459 =====
16

===== PDF PAGE 460 =====
"It's a burn"
I
t was time to put the Torres brothers to the test. Providing
intelligence and letting the cops follow them around was
one thing. But if the investigation was going to progress
beyond that level, the Majors had to be sure the two
Nicaraguans could take the next, critical step: they had to
give someone up.
The brothers chose one of the Colombians they'd named
as a source for the black dealers, Jaime Ramos. One day
in early September 1986, they told Bell narcotics detective
Jerry Guzzetta that Ramos and another man were going to
be making a pickup from two dealers that day at an
abandoned apartment house in South Central. Around 1:00
P.M.
, the Majors set up surveillance on the building.
Within an hour, a red Chevy carrying two Latinos and a
black Mustang with two black men inside rumbled up the
driveway. They chatted briefly and drove off, leading the
detectives on an aimless six-hour ride around Los Angeles.
About 8:00 
P.M.
, near the intersection of 159th and
Vermont Streets, the cars pulled over, and one of the black
men got out and tossed a blue nylon gym bag into the
Chevy. The Chevy sped off to a restaurant in Glendale,
where the bag was transferred to a white car and driven to
a house on Kenwood Avenue.
After a short wait, the Majors burst in, yelling and waving
their guns. Jaime Ramos and the blue gym bag were found
in the bedroom, the latter stuffed with $120,005 in small
bills and $101,000 in cashier's checks. In a closet, they
found a suitcase and six more nylon gym bags—with 114
kilos of cocaine inside. At another house a brown suitcase
contained 17 kilos. Ramos, who was carrying ID from the

===== PDF PAGE 461 =====
Colombian military, and three other Colombians, were
arrested.
Two million dollars worth of dope and a quarter million in
cash. Not bad for an afternoon's work. It looked as if the
Torres brothers were for real. While Detective Tom Gordon
and the Majors plotted their next moves, Jerry Guzxetta
asked the Torres brothers to show him around South
Central. He wanted to know more about this mysterious
black dealer they called "Rick," and needed to determine
how well the Torreses really knew him.
They drove Guzzetta by a vacant two-story apartment
complex off South Avalon Boulevard and told Guzzetta that
a cocaine lab was located there. The building was
occupied only when the dealers were at work, measuring,
testing, and packaging the product. The rest of the time it
was vacant, so there would be no suspicious traffic in and
out of the dilapidated structure.
Near an entrance ramp to the Harbor Freeway, they
pointed out a multistory apartment building, which they said
served as one of Rick's distribution centers. Even during
the middle of the week there was a lot of activity—young
men lounging along the curb, hanging in the doorways—but
the Torreses told Guzzetta to come by the place on a
Friday or Saturday night if he really wanted to see some
action. "There are numerous drug dealers that come to the
location to party and there are numerous new vehicles, like
Mercedes and Cadillacs, which would be parked on the
street at the time of the parties," Guzzetta's report stated.
Swinging by 75th and Figueroa, the brothers pointed out
a newly constructed motel, the Freeway Motor Inn. Rick had
bought the land for a million dollars, they told Guzzetta, and
had the motel built to his specifications. Rick's mother,
Annie, worked the front desk.

===== PDF PAGE 462 =====
Suddenly, everything clicked.
Rick. The Freeway Motor Inn. This was too good to be
true, Guzzetta marvelled. The Torres brothers had led him
to the legendary Freeway Rick, the elusive crack lord
whose existence had only become known to the Majors
within the past few months.
While rumors of a super crack dealer had been floating
around South Central since late 1985, it wasn't until April
1986 that the police received informant information
suggesting that there might be truth behind the rumors. The
Majors I squad asked Detective John Edner to see what he
could find out, and Edner confirmed that "Freeway Rick"
had a name—Ricky Donnell Ross. While Edner couldn't
track him down, he did find Freeway Rick's girlfriend,
Marilyn Stubblefield, and got her address.
On May 15, 1986, the Majors introduced themselves.
According to Stubblefield's brother, Steve, they kicked the
door in, ransacked the apartment, arrested Marilyn, and
beat Steve with a flashlight, telling him to pass a message
along to Freeway Rick that he had some real bad hombres
looking for him.
During the search of the Stubblefields' house, which
turned up a bit of cocaine, some marijuana, and some
empty kilo wrappers, Ross's cousin, George Mauldin,
stopped by, and the Majors gave him the same warm
welcome they'd given Steve Stubblefield. "Mauldin showed
up while we were in the process of searching the house.
We had most of the subjects detained in the living room.
Mauldin showed up and got into a shoving match with
[Detective Robert] Tolmaire after he was told not to
interfere with what we were doing," Majors I supervisor
Sergeant Robert Sobel recalled. "I believe Tolmaire hit him
with a flashlight."

===== PDF PAGE 463 =====
In late August Majors I struck again, rousting two of
Ross's cousins, Anthony and Eric Mauldin, on suspicion of
possessing stolen firearms. They didn't arrest them. They
"tuned them up" and told them to tell Rick to watch his ass.
For the first time in his young life, Rick Ross started
worrying about the cops.
Years later, Ross surmised that the Torres brothers gave
him up because he'd quit buying cocaine from them in
1986, reverting back to an exclusive relationship with
Danilo Blandón. "Danilo's price was so low, that the Torres
brothers simply could not continue to compete," Ross told
police investigators in 1996. In addition, Ross and Blandón
had become very close friends. "We got more personal
with Danilo. We started to get more like friends than just
selling dope. You know, first it was just like businesses, you
know, like we'd meet him in the street. Eventually we
started goin' over to his house and hanging out with him
and stuff like that."
While the Majors I crew worked Ross's organization from
the bottom up, Majors II was working it from the top down,
trying to zero in on Ross's suppliers. The Ramos bust had
been impressive in terms of cocaine and cash seized, but
ultimately it had been a dead end. Despite the Torres's
claims that the Colombian was one of Ross's big suppliers,
no evidence was found linking him to Ross. In later
interviews with police, Ross and his partner, Ollie Newell,
both specifically denied that any of their suppliers had been
arrested in September 1986, and both said they had not
lost any money that month as the result of an arrest.
The Ramos case was eventually plea-bargained down to
nothing, "and they let a guy who we found with 230 pounds
of coke plead to a five-kilo bust and deported him," Gordon
said. Later events led him to believe that Ramos had been

===== PDF PAGE 464 =====
a CIA operative, but according to court records, his light
punishment may have been due to the fact that the Majors
had no search warrant when they busted into his house.
Gordon went back to square one.
He started working his way down the list of other men the
Torres brothers had identified as supplying Ross. It was not
promising. He had only first names—Diego and Stefano—
for the other two Colombians. All he knew about Diego was
that he was a flashy dresser and a womanizer. Stefano,
reportedly a college student, appeared to be working with
some Italians who owned a fish processing plant in
Riverside. Neither path seemed to point to South Central
L.A., and the Torres brothers seemed vague on details
about those two.
The information was much harder on the fourth man,
Danilo Blandón, and his ex-cop sidekick, Ronnie Lister.
These were the guys who, according to Guzzetta, the
Torreses were really afraid of. If they were able to frighten a
pair of heavily armed behemoths like the Torreses, they
must be something.
On the afternoon of September 17, 1986, Gordon ran the
names the Torres brothers had provided through two
computer databases, NIN and NADDIS, which collect
information from narcotics investigations around the world.
They can instantly provide an officer with a criminal history
of the suspect, his known associates, aliases, addresses,
and the case file numbers of all DEA investigations in
which the suspected trafficker's name has turned up.
Running a NIN and NADDIS check is a routine way to
begin a narcotics investigation; it lets the investigator know
if anyone else is working on the same suspects. If a doper
has a NIN or NADDIS file, the protocol dictates that
whoever entered the trafficker into the database "owns"

===== PDF PAGE 465 =====
that doper from then on. (Narcotics cops frequently
complain about officers who enter everyone they run across
into the databases, just to claim ownership in case the
person one day turns out to be a major trafficker.) NADDIS
also alerts the "owner" if someone else accesses the
computer file. "The idea is so that we don't end up shooting
each other," Gordon explained.
The computer screen brought up Blandón's file first. He
was listed as a Class One trafficker, the biggest. He had
some addresses in Glendale, which showed up in
connection with the Torres brothers. A couple file
references from 1983 and 1984 described him as the head
of a cocaine distribution organization in Los Angeles. He
had only two known associates: Roger Sandino and Norwin
Meneses.
Gordon decided to check them out with the computer.
Sandino's criminal history included a 1981 conviction in
Hialeah, Florida, for attempting to sell 50,000 Quaalude
tablets, while in the country illegally from Nicaragua.
The next name Gordon typed into the NADDIS computer
was that of Norwin Meneses. When his file came up, it
seemed as if it would never end. On and on it went, screen
after screen.
This guy, Gordon observed, was in a league of his own.
Another Nicaraguan, he had been in the NADDIS database
since 1976—a decade. A Class One trafficker. Twelve
aliases. Houses all over the Bay Area. A mansion in
Managua. Mentioned in thirty-two DEA investigations,
some as far back as 1974. A couple of classified files from
1976. Bringing in cocaine from Colombia, Costa Rica, and
Ecuador, sending it to New Orleans, Miami, San Francisco,
Los Angeles. Among a host of current associates were a
cross-match: Roger Sandino and Danilo Blandón.

===== PDF PAGE 466 =====
The report also revealed that someone else had been in
Meneses's NADDIS file recently. The date of the last
update was only nineteen days earlier. When Gordon
started checking the status of the DEA investigations in
Meneses's file, he learned that a number of them were still
open. Yet despite all the official interest, Meneses had
never been charged with a single thing. He was clean.
Gordon called up Ronald Lister's file next. It was short
and sweet. He was an ex-policeman who was under active
DEA investigation. The case was so active, Gordon
noticed, that Lister's NADDIS file was less than a month
old.
Another live wire.
But all the details of that case were classified, the
NADDIS report stated. Gordon jotted the name of Lister's
"owner" on the bottom of the printout: DEA agent Sandalio
"Sandy" Gonzalez, U.S. Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica—
the same agent who "owned" Blandón.
Something didn't add up. Lister lived in Orange County.
Blandón lived in San Bernardino County. Why would a
Costa Rican DEA agent have them under investigation—
unless they'd been down in Costa Rica recently? Then
Gordon noticed that Meneses had been under investigation
in Costa Rica also.
When Jerry Guzzetta brought the case in the door, he'd
been insisting that he'd uncovered an international crack
ring. It was sure beginning to look that way.
Gordon picked up the phone and called DEA agent
Gonzalez to find out what was going on. The reaction he got
was memorable. Gonzalez "goes through the ceiling,"
Gordon recalled. "He starts screaming that all the phone
lines go through Nicaragua and [says] 'You can't call me on
an open line and talk about this!' He said he'd fly to

===== PDF PAGE 467 =====
Panama and call me from there."
Now the detective was really baffled. So what if the
phone lines went through Nicaragua? They probably went
through a lot of other places on their way down there and
back. What's the big deal?
Gordon didn't hear from Gonzalez for five days, and when
the DEA agent finally called back, Gordon was out.
Gonzalez asked the cop who answered the phone to take a
message for him, which Gordon found on his desk: "Tom,
got a call from Sandy Gonzalez of Costa Rica DEA. He
said [local DEA agent] will let you read the info. Sandy can
not talk on the phone because all the lines are through
Nicaragua. Sandy asks that you don't mention anything in
your s/w [search warrant affidavit]. It's a burn."
There's those Nicaraguan phone lines again, Gordon
saw. And what's this crap about "a burn?" That was cop
slang meaning that his investigation had been exposed and
the bad guys knew he was investigating them. Gonzalez
was telling Gordon not to put any details of his investigation
into the sworn statement he had to file with his application
for a search warrant because the search would come up
dry and he would tip his hand for nothing.
Gordon didn't get that one at all. How the hell could his
investigation of Blandón and Lister have been burned? It
hadn't even started yet. The case was still sitting on top of
his desk. Nobody had done anything except run a couple of
computer checks, and no one besides Jerry Guzzetta—and
now the DEA—even knew the Majors were working on it.
Besides, how would a DEA agent a couple thousand
miles away know that a newborn investigation by the L.A.
County Sheriff's Office had been burned?
When Gordon called the DEA office in L.A., as Gonzalez
suggested, his uneasiness grew. No, he was told, the

===== PDF PAGE 468 =====
Costa Rican DEA office was not investigating Lister and
Blandón. But an agent in Riverside, California, just outside
L.A., was.
Gordon found that Riverside DKA agent Thomas A.
Schrettner was only too happy to help him. Schrettner had
his hands full with other investigations, he told Gordon, and
his supervisors weren't letting him spend much time on the
Blandón case. All he could do for him was pass along what
little information he had and let the L.A. detectives take it
from there.
In retrospect, Gordon said, that should have set off some
alarms. The DEA was notorious among local lawmen for
coming in and stealing the best cases, mainly for the
publicity value. It almost never handed off a big case to a
smaller department. Yet here was a case involving major
international cocaine traffickers, crack in the ghettos,
multikilo shipments, and hundreds of millions of dollars—
the kind of case the DEA exists for—and the agency didn't
want to investigate it?
At the time, though, Gordon thought Schrettner's offer
was a clever way to get around a bureaucratic roadblock
and still bring a dope dealer to justice. And when Schrettner
sent Gordon a copy of his report on the investigation, the
detective quickly forgot his concerns about the unusual
behavior of the federal agents. The case was everything
Gordon imagined it would be. It was worldwide.
In late August 1986 Schrettner had debriefed a
Nicaraguan informant who'd known Blandón since meeting
him in Miami in 1983. The informant admitted hauling
cocaine and millions of dollars across the country for
Blandón during 1984 and 1985, but said he felt bad about
doing it and was planning to turn Danilo in eventually. As a
matter of fact, he said, he'd already tried to turn him in

===== PDF PAGE 469 =====
once. Before starting a drug-hauling trip to the West Coast,
the informant said, he "informed the FBI in Miami of the
shipment and route but no action was taken."
Schrettner's informant described the drug ring as
consisting of "loosely associated Nicaraguans located
principally in the Southern California area. Said groups
together purchase/distribute approximately 400 kilos of
cocaine per month. . .. Cocaine is often transported to the
Blandón organization and then from Blandón to Meneses in
San Francisco." For Gordon, that information held special
meaning. It provided an independent verification of the
accuracy of the information that Guzzetta had gotten from
the Torres brothers and the data he'd pulled off NADDIS.
According to Schrettner's informant, Norwin Meneses
was involved. Roger Sandino was involved. So were
Jacinto Torres, Ronald Lister, and Anastasio Somoza's
former bank chairman, Orlando Murillo, who was allegedly
laundering Blandón's cash in Miami and serving as a front
man in property deals.
The informant told the DEA that Blandón's millions were
being driven to Florida in motor homes and taken to the
Fontainebleu Apartment Complex between Miami and
Sweetwater, "which had been purchased for Blandón by
Orlando Murillo."
Murillo was identified as working at the Government
Security Bank in Coral Gables, and acting as "the principal
money-launderer" for Blandón and Meneses. While Murillo
denied those accusations, Blandón admitted under oath
that Murillo had handled cash transfers to Panama for him,
and put his name on deeds to properties that Blandón
owned but he said Murillo didn't know he was handling drug
money. However, in an interview with the author Murillo said
he'd known Blandón was a drug dealer since early 1981.

===== PDF PAGE 470 =====
According to the Schrettner's informant, the Nicaraguan
drug ring was made up of "two separate organizations. The
principal group is controlled by Blandón and is the focal
point for drug supply and money-laundering for the others.
Blandón utilizes the nickname 'Chanchin' [fat pig] and
works closely with his wife Chepita in his trafficking. The
other group is run by Meneses and is located principally in
the San Francisco Bay Area."
The informant filled seven pages with names, dates,
cash deliveries, stash house locations, drug storehouses,
and business fronts. History has proven that nearly all of the
information was accurate. Among those named as
members of Blandón's operation were Claudio
Villavicencio, aka Ivan Arguellas, Rick Ross's first major
supplier. Another one of Blandón's employees, a cocaine
distributor named Ivan Torres, was listed as having
"political connections with the FDN."
Then Schrettner dropped a real bombshell on Tom
Gordon. The DEA wasn't the only federal agency with its
eye on Blandón. Just a few days earlier, Schrettner related,
he'd met with an FBI agent named Douglas Aukland,
whose office was just down the hall from Schrettner's. The
FBI agent had told him a story that was dead-bang the
same as what had just happened to Schrettner: Aukland
was sitting in his office, minding his own business, when a
stranger ambled in off the streets with story right out of the
movies: A monster drug ring, run by high-ranking Contras,
pouring cocaine into the ghettos of Los Angeles, where it
was being turned into crack and marketed through crack
houses.
According to Aukland's official report of the encounter,
the man said the ring was being run by Blandón and Norwin
Meneses, who "imported cocaine from Colombia, through

===== PDF PAGE 471 =====
Nicaragua, Honduras, and Costa Rica, and was one of the
largest distributors of cocaine on the West Coast. A pilot
named 'Oklahoma Dick,' who possibly lived in the Tulsa
area, regularly flew to South America to obtain this cocaine.
. .among the members of Blandón's organization were his
wife [Chepita], Orlando Murillo [who routinely laundered
cocaine funds for Blandón] and Ronald Lister, a former
Laguna Beach, California, police officer who, in September
1985, allegedly drove with Blandón to deliver 100 kilos of
cocaine to major suppliers of LA. 'rock houses' in exchange
for $2.6 million."
And these weren't your everyday, run-of-the-mill drug
dealers, the informant had warned Aukland. They had. .
.connections.
"Blandón and Meneses were founding members of the
Nicaraguan Democratic Force (FDN), a wing of the Contra
movement headed by Calcro, and Blandón and Meneses
used their drug profits to help fund the FDN," the FBI report
states. "In January 1985, Eden Pastora, another Contra
leader, had met with Blandón in Miami in an effort to seek
cocaine funds from Blandón to fund Contra operations but
no deals were struck during that meeting."
For the first time, the pieces were falling together to form
a complete and utterly horrifying picture. All the blanks were
filling in. The CIA's secret warriors were not only killing the
citizens of Nicaragua, Honduras, and Costa Rica, but if the
two federal informants were right, they were using L.A.'s
inner city as an addict base from which to draw money to
buy their guns. At the same time the Contras was being
sold to American citizens as their great, shining hope for
freedom and democracy in Latin America, they were
providing the demons for the Reagan Administration's
hyperbolic War on Drugs at home. The Contras were

===== PDF PAGE 472 =====
largely to blame for the birth of the L.A. crack market. They
were part of why the L.A. gangs had gotten so powerful and
fearsome. And those developments were part of the reason
for the Draconian anti-crack laws that came out of
Washington that summer, a product of the Congressional
stampede whipped up by all the lurid anti-crack
propaganda the media was carrying. It was a self-
perpetuating cycle, nice and neat, with obvious benefits for
both foreign and domestic policy initiatives.
Though FBI agent Douglas Aukland had never worked a
dope case in his life, he knew a major crime when he saw
one. His informant was believable; he had lots of details,
lots of valuable information, things that could only have
come from inside.
Aukland checked on Meneses with his counterparts in
the San Francisco FBI office and got an earful from agent
Donald Hale, who had been following Norwin's exploits in
the Bay Area for many frustrating years. No one had been
able to catch the drug lord with dope, or get anyone inside
of his operation, Aukland learned. But Hale told him he'd
recently gotten permission from the U.S. Attorney's Office
to build a "historical" case against Meneses, in anticipation
of an indictment for running a continuing criminal enterprise.
"Hale said he had three informants willing to testify
against Meneses," Aukland related to Justice Department
inspectors. And Hale, too, had been hearing stories of drug
profits going to Nicaragua, for both the Contras and the
Sandinistas.
Convinced that his informant was reliable, Aukland went
to his supervisors in Riverside, and to their supervisors in
Los Angeles, and pleaded for permission to open an
investigation. For a probe this big and this sensitive,
Aukland told them, he'd need an "off-site" location from

===== PDF PAGE 473 =====
which to operate; he couldn't work on something like this in
the FBI office. He also wanted pen registers put on
Blandón's phones, and he would need surveillance teams
set up at the stash locations the informant had named.
Aukland got permission to start an investigation, along
with $10,000 to pay his informant, and that was about it. If
he wanted to look into this, his bosses said, fine. And, by
the way, you're on your own.
"Aukland said he did not get much help on the case from
his supervisors or other agents, who were already spread
thin handling other matters," the Justice Department's
Inspector General later wrote. Nor was the DEA particularly
eager to assist. Except when he could steal an hour or two,
Tom Schrettner wasn't allowed to work on the Blandón
investigation at all. He was told to keep his eyes on his
heroin cases, and let the FBI worry about the Contras.
(In hindsight, the FBI's and DEA's refusal to assign more
than one rookie drug agent to a ease this grave seems
almost incredible. It is evidence either of amazing
incompetence, amazing cowardice, or obstruction of
justice.)
After L.A. Deputy Tom Gordon saw the lay of the land, he
decided the Majors weren't going to wait for the feds to get
off their duffs. His crew could handle these bad boys
themselves. But Aukland objected. The Majors should step
aside, he told Gordon. This was a federal case, the FBI
was on it first, and their informant was in the best position
of any to help them take this operation down. But Gordon
was adamant. The Majors were going ahead and if the FBI
didn't like it, too had. The drug ring was bringing in too
much dope for them to sit around and wait until a lone FBI
agent nobody wanted to help could pull a federal case
together. The Majors didn't need the feds. They could make

===== PDF PAGE 474 =====
their own case, (pick up with "He now had. . .)" He now had
three independent sources telling the same story. The
Majors had enough evidence to obtain a search warrant
and bust the whole operation, Gordon told the FBI agent,
and that was what they were going to do.
Once it became clear that Gordon was not going to back
off, Aukland said, he agreed to help the Majors with their
probe. "Agent Aukland thought very highly of LASD Deputy
Tom Gordon," police investigators reported later. "He said
it was obvious Gordon was very knowledgable and had
extensive narcotics experience."
Gordon also had enough bureaucratic experience to
know he was heading into some very dangerous political
territory. Anyone who read the papers knew what the
Contras were and just how strongly the U.S. government felt
about them, particularly then. Congress had just approved
Reagan's $100 million aid package, and Reagan was
getting ready to sign the bill.
If Gordon was going to end up investigating his own
government or its proxy army for drug trafficking, he
realized, he'd better get someone to sign off on it. He
approached Lieutenant Mike Fossey, the acting captain of
the bureau, and laid out the whole scenario. "The
allegations were that the Contras were selling cocaine
throughout the United States and in Southern California in
particular," Fossey recalled in a 1996 interview with police
investigators. Fossey recalled being told "that the CIA was
involved with them, screened them, and protected their
operation." He considered Gordon's claims to be "a major
accusation," and told the detective to keep after it.
Gordon's immediate supervisor, Sergeant Ed Huffman,
decided to brief the commander of the Sheriff's Narcotics
Bureau, Captain Robert Wilber, just to make sure the top

===== PDF PAGE 475 =====
brass had no qualms about pursuing such a sensitive case.
Wilber confirmed that Huffman and his men "believed the
suspects were possibly Contras. During this conversation
they also said they were reluctant to work with the FBI on
the case because the FBI might 'burn' them."
Wilber wasn't sure if Huffman's suspicions were "a
political thing," or if the veteran sergeant just felt
uncomfortable working with the feds. During this period,
Wilber told investigators in 1996, his "guys were not
working with the federal agents very well and. . .he pushed
his deputies to work with them on this case."
"It was a tough nut to crack," he said, "but I was
constantly emphasizing that they had to work with the
Feds." Huffman reluctantly agreed to bring the Justice
Department's agents aboard. But had the L.A. officers
known what was going on right then with the DEA office in
Costa Rica, and the agents who were monitoring Meneses,
Blandón, and Lister, it's doubtful they would have let the
Feds anywhere near their investigation.

===== PDF PAGE 476 =====
17

===== PDF PAGE 477 =====
"We're going to blow your fucking head
off"
J
oseph Kelso, an undercover informant for the U.S.
Customs Service, slipped quietly into Costa Rica in April
1986 on the trail of an elusive drug dealer. Before his visit
was over, he would be chased, beaten, shot at, clubbed,
caged, threatened with death, and deported. Kelso's
horrific misadventures would earn him a minor place in
history, a footnote to one of America's worst scandals—the
Iran-Contra affair. His case would be cited by the
congressional Iran-Contra committees as one example of
how Lieutenant Colonel Oliver North of the National
Security Council impeded law enforcement investigations
to protect his illegal Contra supply operation from public
exposure.
But the four paragraphs about Joe Kelso—buried deep
inside the official Iran-Contra report—tell only a fraction of
his story. How the former fireman from Golden Valley,
Minnesota, happened to attract the stony gaze of Oliver
North and his preppy CIA informant, Robert Owen, was
never explained by the congressional committee. That
omission bothered several Democratic members of the
Iran-Contra panel—Congressmen Peter Rodino of New
Jersey, Dante Fascell of Florida, Jack Brooks of Texas,
and Louis Stokes of Ohio—who decided to write their own
report on the matter of Joe Kelso. "The significance of the
Kelso section. . .of the Committee report is not entirely
clear from the facts as stated," the congressmen
complained in a little-read appendix to the final report. "In
order to understand why Owen and North were so
concerned about Kelso, one must understand just what

===== PDF PAGE 478 =====
Kelso was doing and learning in Costa Rica."
What Kelso was doing, records show, was investigating
allegations that the same Costa Rican DEA agents
watching over Norwin Meneses and Danilo Blandón were
trafficking in drugs and funny money. What he was learning
was just how hazardous investigating such matters could
be.
Kelso, a would-be spy and inveterate thrill seeker, had
been working as a CIA informant since the early 1980s,
after he befriended a German-born arms dealer in Denver
named Heinrich Rupp. Kelso said he was approached by a
CIA agent who called himself Bill Chandler and asked to
gather information about Rupp's activities. Rupp was
selling arms to the Argentines during their short war with
Great Britain over the Falkland Islands, and the CIA wanted
to know what they were buying. At the CIA's suggestion,
Kelso began working for Rupp, posing as a weapons
broker seeking arms for Iraqi president Saddam Hussein.
The agency figured it would draw some interesting people
out of the woodwork, Kelso said, but the mission ended in
a minor disaster. The tough-talking twenty-six-year-old was
arrested by the U.S. Customs Service and charged with
attempting to buy Harpoon missiles—big radar-guided
cruise missiles designed to blow up ships—for the Iraqi
government. Unbeknownst to Kelso, the men he had been
negotiating missile deals with were undercover Customs
investigators.
Kelso's arrest presented the CIA with a problem; the
agency's charter prohibits it from spying on people inside
the United States. To keep the operation under wraps,
Kelso was advised by his CIA handlers to keep his mouth
shut and plead guilty to the weapons charges, and they
promised that his legal problems would go away.

===== PDF PAGE 479 =====
Federal court records lend support to Kelso's story.
Despite the severity of his crime—attempting to acquire
cruise missiles for an unfriendly foreign government—Kelso
was put on probation and promptly vanished. Supplied with
a new identity and a matching passport, Kelso went back to
work for the federal government, this time as an informant
for the very agency that had just arrested him: the U.S.
Customs Service. His control officer, Special Agent Larry
LaDodge, registered him as an informant under the name
of Richard Williams and sent him to Europe to hunt down a
fugitive methamphetamine dealer who was wanted in the
United States on "numerous, numerous charges," Kelso
said.
Kelso followed the dealer's trail around Holland and
England, and then LaDodge picked up word that the doper
had a ranch in Costa Rica. In mid-1986, Kelso went to find
it. He also had another mission to perform while there: "a
standing directive" from the CIA to gather intelligence about
Robert Vesco, the millionaire swindler and fugitive who
lived in Havana and had been flitting through Costa Rica
and Nicaragua during the time of the Contra war, always
managing to stay one step ahead of the law. Kelso found
the methamphetamine dealer's ranch, but not its owner; he
"had a house on the Mexican border, so he could hop back
and forth between the U.S. border and the Mexican border
to continue to conduct his narcotics business."
But Kelso continued his search for Vesco; he found the
financier's private jet, he says, parked in a hangar in San
Jose. When he checked to see who was paying the
storage bills, he learned that it was the owners of a shrimp
company called Frigorificos de Puntarenas—the cocaine-
dealing CIA front that was helping Oliver North funnel U.S.
government money to the Contras.

===== PDF PAGE 480 =====
"A decision was being made up here in the United
States whether we were going to put a satellite pinger on it
or not," Kelso later testified, "and they chose not to, even
though we had such direct access."
While on his Vesco hunt, Kelso started frequenting a bar
in San Jose across from the headquarters of a right-wing
political group known as Costa Rica Libre. To hear Kelso
tell it, the watering hole was like something out of
Casablanca
. It was "where most of the upper echelon of
Costa Rica Libre hang out," he testified in a videotaped
deposition taken in 1988. "Now the oddity that we found
was that the ETA [a left-wing guerrilla group] would hang
out there and drink with them. M-19 [a Colombian terrorist
group] was there. The German Mafia people were there.
And it was just—they were drinking together, and having a
good time like they were old buddies."
From the carousing crooks and mercenaries Kelso
picked up word that "the [U.S.] Embassy was dirty and the
Embassy, you know, had leaks. . .in the visa and passport
section. Some 'Ticos'—or Costa Ricans—that were hired
there had been manufacturing passports for a long time
and selling visas." Kelso said he forwarded a report to the
FBI, "and they turned around and shut the embassy down
for 45 days. . .while they did a security check." Then Kelso
began hearing rumors that DEA agent Robert Nieves, the
country attache and Norwin Meneses's control agent, had
been taking cocaine from seizures made by the Costa
Rican narcotics police. Kelso said the allegations were
largely conjecture, but he confided them to Department of
Defense officials stationed in Costa Rica. "They just
shrugged their shoulders and said, 'Geez, he found out'
and, you know, left it at that."
Kelso claimed that Agent LaDodge authorized him to

===== PDF PAGE 481 =====
pursue the allegations further. He snooped around Nieves
and the other DEA agents working at the embassy for a
couple months, enlisting the aid of a Canadian who worked
as a U.S. Customs informant, Brian Caldwell. By the end of
that summer of 1986, Kelso testified, he had "hard-core,
documentable, bring-it-into-court information." Six
witnesses—current and former Costa Rican and American
government officials—were willing to testify that the DEA
agents were skimming cocaine from drug seizures, making
counterfeit money, sanitizing intelligence reports to
Washington, and protecting cocaine processing labs in
northern Costa Rica, including at least two on Contra
bases, Kelso testified.
"What did they say to you was their direct knowledge of
Mr. Nieves and his activities?" Kelso was asked during his
deposition, which was taken by the Washington-based
Christie Institute as part of a civil racketeering lawsuit it
filed in 1986 against a variety of current and former
government officials involved with the Contras.
"Well, they were all reverting back to direct involvement
with narcotics smuggling and—if you want to use the word
—protection in that situation. And that's the bottom line. I
mean, it was all relative to that, with exact situations, exact
information, documentation." The witnesses also told Kelso
that the Contras were "involved in coke. And these were the
people that also reiterated that these are 'bad' Contras.
These particular Contras were, in fact, involved in narcotics,
and were, in fact, involved in smuggling. Period."
One of Kelso's "witnesses" was Warren W Treece, the
deputy director of the Narcotics Department of the Costa
Rican Ministry of Public Affairs. Treece, according to a
1989 Costa Rican prosecutor's report, had had a strange
experience with one of Nieves's men, Sandy Gonzalez—

===== PDF PAGE 482 =====
the DEA agent who'd yelled at L.A. detective Tom Gordon
about the phone lines running through Nicaragua.
"Information of the existence of a cocaine laboratory in the
Nicoya peninsula and another one in Talamanca were
transmitted by Treece to an official of the DEA with the
surname of Gonzalez, in Costa Rica, but they were not
investigated on account of the leak of information from this
agent," Costa Rican prosecutor Jorge Chavarria wrote. "As
Treece and Kelso affirmed, that person was protecting
those laboratories."
Gonzalez and Nieves were never charged with a crime
either in Costa Rica or the United States, and the
allegations were never proven. In response to a Freedom
of Information Act request, the DEA claimed it could find no
records about Kelso or his investigation—rather
unbelievably, considering that some DEA records
concerning Kelso were made-available to Iran-Contra
investigators in 1987. The DEA would not allow Gonzalez
to be interviewed, and Nieves refused to answer any
questions.
Costa Rican attorney Gloria Navas, a former prosecutor
and judge who advises the Costa Rican Legislative
Assembly on drug issues, strongly believes that the DEA
agents stationed in Costa Rica during the Contra war were
not what they appeared. "In my opinion, both Nieves and
Sandy Gonzalez were connected with the CIA. There is no
doubt," insisted Navas. "You aren't going to find hard
evidence because these were covert operations. But I did
my own investigations and you can't come to any other
conclusion." The DEA refused to release any records or
answer any questions about the agents' backgrounds or
their possible work for other government agencies.
"Sometimes the lines really got blurred when you were

===== PDF PAGE 483 =====
working for Oliver North," agreed former Iran-Contra
Committee attorney Pam Naughton, who investigated the
Justice Department's role in the scandal. "He was using
DEA agents in Europe as CIA. I mean, they were doing
activities that were way beyond the scope of the DEA.
Those were clearly, clearly covert activities."
One of those double-duty DEA agents was James Kible,
a Madrid-based agent who visited jailed Medellín cartel
boss Jorge Ochoa in Spain in 1984 and attempted to
persude him to publicly implicate the Sandinistas in drug
trafficking. According to a 1987 story in 
The Nation
, Kible
"was one of a select group of DEA operatives who
conducted secret missions for Oliver North and the National
Security Council. On October 24, 1986, Kible and another
DEA agent, Victor Oliveira, were apprehended by Spanish
customs officials while boarding a plane for Switzerland at
Madrid's Barajos Airport. In their possession was a
briefcase filled with $5 million in cash. According to
Spanish government officials quoted in 
El Pais
 of May 9,
1987, the money was destined for a bank account in Zurich
controlled by North's contra-aid team. Some of the funds
were intended as ransom to free American hostages in
Lebanon."
At the time DEA agents Nieves and Gonzalez were
stationed in Costa Rica, the CIA station chief was Joe
Fernandez, a close friend and confidant of North who was
later forced to resign from the CIA for his illegal involvement
with the Contras. Fernandez was indicted by Iran-Contra
prosecutor Lawrence Walsh, but the charges were dropped
on November 22, 1989, when the U.S. Attorney General,
Richard Thornburgh, refused to declassify records needed
in the trial, the first time in history that had ever happened.
Kelso said his witnesses claimed the CIA was involved

===== PDF PAGE 484 =====
in the operation of a drug lab at a Contra base near
Quepos, Costa Rica. "So, it was my problem, or my duty, to
go and respond back to the CIA that this allegation is—is
that we got two CIA agents at Quepos at this laboratory
participating in drug manufacturing, okay?" Kelso said. He
said it was later determined that the men may have been
part of North's resupply operation "and not, in fact, CIA
personnel."
Kelso claimed to have obtained maps pinpointing the
locations of thirty-two cocaine labs in Costa Rica and some
personal papers of the DEA agents, including their radio
code names—Jaguar 1, 2, and 3. A Customs agent
familiar with the case said Kelso stole Agent Nieves's
briefcase from his car. In an interview with the author Kelso
denied this, but laughed while doing so.
At the end of July 1986, Kelso felt he had enough
information about the DEA's activities to report his findings
to his control agent, Larry LaDodge, and to the U.S.
military's Southern Command headquarters in Panama "to
the CIA officer there. It was hand-carried, on a
microcassette." The allegations of counterfeiting were sent
to the Secret Service.
William Rosenblatt, then head of enforcement for U.S.
Customs, confirmed in a deposition that "Mr. LaDodge had
received communications from one of these two gentlemen
by telephone that they had uncovered a counterfeit
operation in Costa Rica, and there was other information
that the informants wanted to provide. . .but they did not feel
comfortable doing it over the phone." That "other"
information, Rosenblatt said in once-secret testimony to
Congress, concerned "narcotics allegations relative to the
Drug Enforcement Administration." Rosenblatt said the
allegations were taken seriously in Washington: the

===== PDF PAGE 485 =====
Customs Service "coordinated with the Secret Service as
well as our Customs attache in Panama, who is
responsible also for the country of Costa Rica.
Arrangements were made for one of the New Orleans
agents to travel through Miami down to Costa Rica to meet
up with the informants and the Secret Service, so that we
could provide firsthand information to the Secret Service
about this alleged counterfeit money operation."
The New Orleans agent, Douglas Lee Knochenberger,
met with Kelso and Caldwell in early August "ostensibly to
debrief them and also to pay them the money that Mr.
LaDodge felt was owed to them," Rosenblatt testified. "He
did not check in with the Embassy. He immediately met
with the informant, paid the informant and to some extent
debriefed the informant."
According to the Iran-Contra committee minority report,
Kelso and Caldwell "told Customs that the DEA agents in
Costa Rica knew the location of drug laboratories and had
been paid to conceal the location of narcotics." Kelso said
he gave Knochenberger maps showing the locations of the
drug labs, cassette tapes of interviews, and other
documents. But Knochenberger—whom Kelso called a
"newbie" and Rosenblatt termed "relatively
inexperienced"—became nervous, insisting that he had to
report the information to DEA attache Nieves at the
embassy.
Kelso couldn't believe his ears. "If we had this rumor and
either qualified it or disqualified it, going and telling this
person that you're doing research on him, qualifying it or
disqualifying it, would be stupid," Kelso testified, "because
if he is doing it, he would normally head over the hill or
protect himself well enough that no one could touch him."
Kelso said Knochenberger "had explicit orders not to say

===== PDF PAGE 486 =====
anything to Nieves. . .to keep his mouth shut, go in there, tell
him he found nothing, that it was a waste of time, get back
on the airplane immediately with all the documentation and
get the hell out of town."
The agent's response, Kelso said, was: "'Wow, that's not
State Department policy. I can't do that. I'm going to get in
trouble.'" Knochenberger made a beeline for the U.S.
embassy and spilled everything to the very DEA agents
Kelso and Caldwell had just fingered.
"Both the Customs representative from our Panama
office, as well as the Customs agent from LaDodge's office
sat down with the DEA personnel [deleted] and related,
summarized, however you want to, discussed what the
informant had said, to include the allegations of corruption
by DEA officials [deleted]," Rosenblatt confirmed.
Iran-Contra lawyer Pam Naughton, who was questioning
Rosenblatt, was incredulous. "Did they do that on your
instructions, or was that their own idea to tell the DEA about
the allegations of corruption in their midst?" she asked.
"That was their idea," Rosenblatt insisted. "They didn't
do that on my instructions. I didn't even know about this until
after they came back." He agreed that "one may believe it
is not prudent to tell the very same office what the
allegations were. . .and relate those allegations to them,"
but pointed out that it was "part of the agreements that we
have-that we fill in DEA about narcotics information."
The next day, while Kelso and Brian Caldwell were
lounging in their rooms at the Irazu Hotel in San Jose, the
DEA called the Costa Rican national narcotics police and
asked them to arrest the two foreigners on the grounds that
they were impersonating narcotics agents. One of Nieves's
subordinates, Kelso said, "came stomping in there and
demanding to see Caldwell and the stuff. . .and he saw a

===== PDF PAGE 487 =====
couple rolled up maps and he started yelling, you know,
'Are those some of those goddamned maps,' you know,
'floating around here?' And, 'We want those,' and started
taking them." The DEA agent, accompanied by two Costa
Rican national police agents, "started confiscating
everything in the room, tried to do notebooks, things like
that, my briefcase."
Kelso and Caldwell were hustled off to a construction
warehouse owned by the Costa Rican electric company,
where they were shoved around and interrogated about
whom they were working for. When Kelso told of finding
Robert Vesco's airplane, he said, the DEA agent became
"extremely nervous. . .then he says, 'Get in the fucking car,'
so we go in there and we go down to the OIJ [the Costa
Rican national police] main office, right up to the director's
office there."
Soon, Kelso said, DEA agent Nieves "comes in and he
starts screaming, 'I'm going to blow your fucking ass away!'
and 'You son-of-a-bitch!' and on and on and on. . .he's
short-tempered anyway. I said, 'All you are is a
motherfucking Puerto Rican.' And that—that's the key word
that makes him trip off, okay? And I mean, he gets
psychotic and just goes bananas."
According to Kelso, Nieves told him, "'You're a dead
son-of-a-bitch.' You know? And he must have repeated, you
know, 'We're going to blow your fucking head off!' about 50
times. You know? I mean, he was furious, absolutely out of
control." Kelso's story was confirmed by Costa Rican
police officials who were questioned during the Costa
Rican government's investigation of the incident.
According to the Costa Rican paper 
La Nacion
, which
asked Nieves about Kelso in 1986, "Nieves did not
disguise his anger about the fact that the U.S. Customs

===== PDF PAGE 488 =====
was investigating a matter that is a priority task for the
DEA."
Kelso was taken to the U.S. embassy, where he said the
DEA agents began copying the documents in his briefcase
until "a person that I never saw before came in, sat down at
one of the desks, very nice suit, well dressed, which later I
learned, that's Rob Owen." What Kelso didn't know was
that Rob Owen was the eyes and ears of both the CIA and
Oliver North on the Southern Front. Kclso testified that after
Owen got a look at the documents seized from the hotel
room, he ordered the DEA agents to stop making copies,
whisked Kelso out of the embassy, and dropped him back
at his hotel.
Owen, in a deposition, admitted being in Costa Rica
during August 1986, right around the time Kelso was
abducted, but he denied meeting him.
Shaken, Kelso ran to Costa Rican narcotics investigator
Warren Treece's house and hid out. The next day, he said,
Nieves called him there and ordered him back to the
embassy. Kelso refused, and Nieves told him he would be
at Treece's house in five minutes.
"I said, 'Fuck you, try to find me,' and I slammed the
phone down."
And then he ran for his life.
Treece and Alexander Z. MeNulty, the chief of security for
Costa Rican president Oscar Arias, took Kelso "up in the
jungle" and dropped him off, and then returned to San Jose
to pick up weapons and one of the presidential security
cars.
Kelso said he had been instructed by his handlers to
rendezvous at CIA operative John Hull's ranch if he got into
trouble, because Hull had an airstrip where he could make
a speedy getaway. In the dead of night, Treece and

===== PDF PAGE 489 =====
MeNulty drove Kelso north to Hull's well-guarded compound
and dropped him off with a dentist friend of Hull's, where he
spent the night. The dentist drove Kelso onto Hull's ranch
the next day.
Rob Owen later recounted the meeting in a deposition:
"This guy [Kelso] came in and said, 'Look, I have been told
that you are the one guy I should contact. There is a real
problem here. I think the DEA people are trying to kill me. I
am convinced that they were involved in narcotics
trafficking and looking the other way. And I don't know who
else to turn to.'"
Hull, in an interview, confirmed that. He wrote a report on
Kelso's visit the next day, noting that Kelso claimed "[name
deleted] of the U.S.A.-D.E.A. has maps of coke lab
locations in Costa Rica but is protecting them. One large
lab located in southern Nicoya. And another in Talamanca
region."
While Kelso talked, Hull carefully examined the stranger's
passport, which bore the name Richard Williams and
"showed immigration stamps for several Kuropean and
Mideast countries."
Though Kelso clearly seemed in fear for his life, Hull—
who'd been accused repeatedly of facilitating Contra drug
trafficking—was wary, thinking Kelso might have been sent
by the Sandinistas to set him up on drug charges. "Not
being known for wisdom or prudence, but having just heard
that the USA-DEA team had checked in their white hats for
black ones. . .I decided to call the local Rural Guard and the
local DIS Dept. internal security," Hull wrote in his August 9,
1986, report of Kelso's visit. He put Kelso in his guest
house, under guard, until he could figure out what to do with
him.
About three in the morning, Kelso said, he was jolted out

===== PDF PAGE 490 =====
of bed by automatic rifle fire. Peering into the darkness, he
saw a yard full of Costa Rican Rural Guards armed with
AK-47 assault rifles and heard "this guy yelling something
in Spanish." Kelso, wearing only his undershorts, was
pulled out of the guest house and, at gunpoint, marched
across the yard toward Hull's house.
Suddenly, Kelso felt his head explode. One of his captors
bashed him from behind with the butt of his assault rifle,
"and I reach up there and fucking draw blood, and I turned
around and, you know, this guy's serious, you know?"
Kelso was pushed forward again, "and then halfway up,
he hits me again and knocks me right down to the ground."
Hull watched the impromptu parade from his porch with
growing concern. "It was a very, very obvious attempt to get
him to resist so they could shoot him," he recalled. "This
colonel came running up and pointing his finger at me,
saying, 'The [U.S.] Embassy says he's extremely
dangerous. It's better I kill him than he kill me.'"
According to the Costa Rican prosecutor's report, the
embassy official who issued those dire warnings was DEA
agent Nieves. Hull's report stated that the embassy told the
Rural Guard colonel that Kelso "should be shot if he
resisted arrest."
The Contras on Hull's ranch surrounded the Costa Rican
intelligence agents who were beating Kelso, Hull said, and
pulled out 12-gauge riot guns, which they leveled at the
Costa Ricans. "All their guns were down and all the Contra
guys were ready to pull the trigger," Kelso said. The
Contras reminded Hull of "Alabama guard dogs that had
been told to bite a black and couldn't decide which one."
Hull ran down and broke up the standoff, permitting the
Rural Guard to take Kelso away. The woozy Customs
informant was tossed into the back of an Isuzu Trooper and

===== PDF PAGE 491 =====
taken to a Rural Guard facility in San Jose, where, he said,
he was thrown "into this little dog—well, it's, you know, a
cell, but it's like a dog cage."
U.S. Ambassador Lewis Tambs, at Nieves's request,
asked the Costa Rican government to deport Kelso for
using a false passport to enter the country, he said. After
several hours in the cage, Kelso was put aboard the next
plane out of the country.
Hull typed out a detailed letter on Kelso's visit and gave it
to CIA informant Rob Owen, telling him to deliver it to Oliver
North once he got back to Washington. Owen testified that
"I went in to talk to North and gave him a copy of the letter
and said, 'I am concerned because I don't know whether
Hull is being set up, whether there is a problem with the
DEA, or what is going on.'"
In his letter, Hull wrote North: "Since you are in
Wash[ington] you might check these things out. If the DEA
people are in the drug business it should be stopped."
Hull eventually came to believe Kelso was telling the truth
about his investigation: "He was giving me locations of
cocaine labs in Costa Rica and who they belonged to and
then a week later one of them was busted and it was right
where he said it was."
By the time Kelso arrived back in Denver, bells were
ringing all over Washington. Customs enforcement chief
Rosenblatt received a blistering cable from Ambassador
Tambs, chewing him out for "having informants in Costa
Rica without the Embassy knowing about it. . .. I apologized
profusely that it happened and I assured him that these
informants had not gone down there with our approval, and
if they had, we would have definitely let the Embassy or the
Ambassador know about it and all I was doing there for
about 15 minutes was apologizing profusely, assuring them

===== PDF PAGE 492 =====
it wouldn't happen again."
Back in Denver, Kelso met with his lawyer, former federal
prosecutor Rod Snow, and told him he feared for his safety.
He asked Snow to hold onto the evidence he'd gathered in
Costa Rica—tapes of interviews he'd done with U.S.
intelligence agents and Costa Rican officials. Snow
listened to them and called U.S. Attorney Bruce Black,
urging him to do the same. But before he turned the tapes
over, Snow wanted Black to promise that the tapes would
not wind up in Washington because Kelso was afraid they
would fall into the "wrong hands."
Black agreed, but the tapes ended up there anyway.
After listening to Kelso's tapes, Black called the special
agent in charge of the Denver office of U.S. Customs, Gary
Hilberry, and had him listen. Hilberry immediately phoned
Washington, telling Rosenblatt that "based on the contents
that he was very concerned, that one could almost make a
case from these conversations, that there was some
connection between Kelso and some member of the
intelligence community," Rosenblatt testified. "I have known
Gary Hilberry a very long time. He is now our special agent
in charge of New York. He is not an alarmist. . .therefore, I
called Colonel North."
Asked why he would call the National Security Council
about a Customs agent's investigation of the DEA,
Rosenblatt bluntly admitted that he was covering the
Reagan administration's ass.
"My objective was to save any potential embarrassment
to the goveminent," he testified. "My main purpose was to
find out whether Kelso/Williams was working with the
intelligence community because of the tapes that Gary
Hilberry had, and the potential for embarrassment."
Rosenblatt "went through the whole story with [North] from

===== PDF PAGE 493 =====
beginning to end. The Costa Rica business." He told North
that Kelso had tapes to back up his charges "and was
threatening to go to the media about his connection to the
intelligence community." It was a threat to be reckoned with.
As Rob Owen discovered after talking to Kelso's control
agent, Larry LaDodge, Kelso really was who he claimed to
be. "He validated the claim that Kelso was an asset," Owen
testified. LaDodge told him that "Kelso said he was
working for the CIA. He passed the polygraph. LaDodge
started using him as an asset."
Customs official Rosenblatt testified that North knew all
about the Kelso affair and didn't seem eager to talk about it
over the phone. "He indicated he was extremely busy, but
he was going to have Rob Owen call me. . .. It was clear to
me that he wanted me to deal with Rob Owen on this
matter." When Owen came around, Rosenblatt testified, he
assumed the young man was on North's staff at the
National Security Council. He told Owen about the tapes—
which he numbered at "around six or seven"—and agreed
to let Owen listen to them "and see if he recognized any
voices. . .we were looking to use the NSC as a vehicle to
determine whether or not the accusations made by
Kelso/Williams were accurate."
Owen confirmed that he picked up the tapes from
Customs in Washington and listened to some of them. The
tapes he heard were of Customs agents debriefing Kelso's
chief informant, Warren Treece, Owen said. "There was
some thought that, at least according to Mr. Treece, that the
Drug Enforcement Administration officials may have been
on the take," he remembered. "There had been
accusations made about Drug Enforcement Agency
officials being involved in receiving funds to look the other
way regarding narcotics trafficking in Costa Rica."

===== PDF PAGE 494 =====
Rosenblatt said he washed his hands of the matter after
he turned the tapes over to Owen, and he never heard
another word about it. "I assumed that by not hearing from
Owen or Colonel North, they were not coming up with
anything positive," he said.
The congressmen on the Iran-Contra panel were stunned
by Rosenblatt's actions. "He gave his only copy of tape
recordings made by an undercover source to a total
stranger," the congressmen complained. "Owen did not tell
Rosenblatt he worked for North or the CIA. He told him he
worked for a private organization. Not surprisingly, Owen
never returned the tape recordings. Instead, he made two
trips to Costa Rica to meet with the DEA agents."
Owen said his last trip to Costa Rica to meet the DEA
agents occurred in October 1986. Within a day or two of
the Iran-Contra scandal breaking, Owen threw the Kelso
tapes away. "They were thrown out, along with a bunch of
other stuff, when I moved," he testified. They were never
seen again.
When the Iran-Contra committees heard about the Kelso
investigation, they asked the DEA to provide them with the
records of the case. "It was like pulling teeth out of Justice
to get any cooperation, and we finally had to threaten
everything imaginable to get to these documents," Iran-
Contra committee attorney Naughton said. "Finally they
caved in. And we had to go over to Justice to look at them
in their secure area, on the sixth floor or wherever it is, and
it reminded me of 
Get Smart—
remember all those doors
you had to go through? That's how it was. We finally get to
the situation room and they had turned down the heat to
about 30 degrees so that we wouldn't stay long. So they
said, 'Here are the documents'—and they're all in Spanish."
Naughton said that, to her knowledge, the DEA never

===== PDF PAGE 495 =====
investigated the drug trafficking allegations against the
Costa Rican agents. DEA director Jack Lawn told
Congress in 1987 he'd never heard of the case. The U.S.
Customs Service also quit looking. Customs agent Hilberry
said the DEA allegations were "turned over to the DEA."
Two Costa Rican intelligence officers were eventually
charged with illegally arresting Kelso, but the only American
agent to go to jail as a result of the investigation was Joe
Kelso. In January 1987 he was charged with violating his
probation on his 1983 weapons charge—by being in Costa
Rica—even though the Customs Service had been sending
him all over the world for four years.
During Kelso's probation hearing both Snow and U.S.
Attorney Bruce Black vouched for his credibility. "Some of
what he said has totally checked out to the best of my ability
to corroborate it, but some is inherently unverifiable," Black
told U.S. District Judge Sherman Finesilver. He confirmed
that "Kelso worked around the world under another name
for several U.S. Customs Service operations."
Argued Snow: "By his belief, and quite frankly mine, he is
working for the government. I believe and the U.S. Attorney
believes there is a fairly high percentage of truth to what he
is saying."
But Judge Finesilver wasn't interested. He ordered Kelso
to prison for two years for violating his probation, "and
didn't discuss the matter further," a newspaper report
stated.
Kelso served his time quietly at Pleasanton federal
prison camp in California and later became involved in a
short-lived attempt to help an Italian financier buy MGM
studios in Hollywood.
The target of Kelso's investigation, DEA agent Robert
Nieves, went on to have a long and illustrious career at the

===== PDF PAGE 496 =====
DEA, rising to great heights. Me became head of cocaine
investigations in Washington, then chief of major
investigations, and at the time of his retirement in late
1995, he was serving as chief of the DEA's International
Division. After his retirement, Nieves went to work for a
body armor manufacturing company in Virginia—Guardian
Technologies. That company is owned by Oliver North, and
the CIA's former chief of station in Costa Rica, Joe
Fernandez.

===== PDF PAGE 497 =====
18

===== PDF PAGE 498 =====
"We bust our ass and the government's
involved"
O
n the morning of October 23, 1986, Sergeant Tom
Gordon did precisely what Costa Rican DEA agent Sandy
Gonzalez had told him not to do: he drove down to L.A.
County Municipal Court, went before a judge, and applied
for a warrant to search the Nicaraguans' drug operation.
His twenty-one-page sworn statement described a "large
scale cocaine distributing organization" made up of "well
over 100 persons storing, transporting and distributing
cocaine for Danilo Blandón."
Gordon linked up Blandón with Freeway Rick's first major
drug supplier, Ivan Arguellas, exposing the Contra drug
pipeline into South Central. Blandón, he wrote, "has up to
20 kilos of cocaine per week delivered to Arguellas who, in
turn, sells mainly to blacks living in the south central Los
Angeles area." Another South Central distribution point
was a bar at Central Avenue and Adams Street, which
Blandón uses "to distribute as much as 10 kilos of cocaine
per week," the affidavit said.
And the detective didn't pull any punches when it came to
the Contras. "Danilo Blandón is from Nicaragua, a Central
American country which has been at civil war for several
years," Gordon wrote. "One side of this civil war is the
'Contra army.' Informant] #2 stated to your affiant that
Blandón is a 'Contra' sympathizer and a founder of the
'Kronte [sic] Demoeratica Nicaragua' [FDN] an
organization that assists the Contra movement with arms
and money. The money and arms generated by this
organization comes through the sale of cocaine."
Gordon listed more than a dozen locations across

===== PDF PAGE 499 =====
southern California where Blandón and his cohorts were
storing drugs and cash. He traced the money trail from Los
Angeles across the country, writing that the "monies gained
from the sales of cocaine are transported to Florida and
laundered thru Orlando Murillo who is a high ranking officer
of a chain of banks in Florida named Government
Securities Corporation. From this bank the monies are
filtered to the Contra rebels to buy arms in the war in
Nicaragua."
Gordon's sworn statement would prove to be a
remarkably accurate portrait of the drug ring. A decade
later Blandón would admit under oath that he was one of
the founders of the FDN, and that nearly all of the people
and locations Gordon named in his warrant were part of his
drug operation. Blandón would also admit sending money
to Orlando Murillo, who did, in fact, work for Government
Securities Corporation, a chain of securities brokerages in
southern Florida that went belly-up in 1987 amid federal
allegations of fraud. The one accusation Blandón denied
was that his father—Julio Blandón, the ex-slumlord—stored
cocaine in his San Gabriel apartment.
Gordon's affidavit was pure political dynamite. At the
time, the Contras were the hottest story in the country. Less
than three weeks earlier, drug smuggler Barry Seal's old C-
123K cargo plane had been shot out of the sky over
Nicaragua, carrying a full load of weapons. Since then, new
revelations about illegal U.S. goverment involvement in the
Contra war had been appearing in the media almost daily.
The White House, the State Department, and the CIA had
immediately denied that the cargo plane—which was part
of Oliver North's resupply operation—had any connections
to the government, but those lies began unraveling the
moment Sandinista patrols got back from the site of the

===== PDF PAGE 500 =====
smoldering wreck.
"The Sandinistas announced that the flight crew had not
been flying with what we call in the business 'clean
pockets,'" said Alan Fiers, the CIA officer then in charge of
the Contra program. "They had all sorts of pocket litter that
identified and connected them back to Ilopango. They had
the cards of some of the NHAO—one particular NHAO
employee, flight logs, essentially enough information so that
the Sandinistas could put together, and did in fact, a lot of
information relative to the connections of that flight."
If that wasn't enough, the Sandinistas also had one
slightly battered cargo kicker named Eugene Hasenfus, the
only crew member carrying a parachute. Hasenfus, who'd
worked for the CIA's Air America airline during the
agency's secret war in Laos, told the press that he was
again working for the CIA—at a time when the agency was
allegedly not involved with the Contras. Hasenfus identified
his CIA handlers as Ramon Medina, the alias of the Cuban
terrorist and suspected drug trafficker Luis Posada
Carriles, and Max Gómez, an alias of former CIA agent
Felix Rodriguez. Hasenfus also exposed the secret Contra
air base at Ilopango.
Aside from the legal problems Hasenfus presented for
the administration, he was an even bigger political
headache—living proof that the CIA and the White House
had been lying about U.S. involvement with the Contras.
The burgeoning scandal threatened to derail the
administration's hard-fought efforts to win congressional
approval for $100 million the CIA needed to restart the
Contra war.
When the cargo plane went down, the new aid bill was in
the final stages of passage through Congress. Reagan
administration officials scrambled to keep a lid on the

===== PDF PAGE 501 =====
incident, sending out false press advisories, booking
administration spokesmen on political talk shows to spread
the official line, and sending CIA officials to Capitol Hill to
give false testimony to bewildered congressional
committees. The disinformation campaign, combined with
a strange reluctance by the congressional intelligence
committees to delve too deeply into the matter, worked
long enough to get the $100 million aid bill through
Congress.
But now, with the legislation sitting on Reagan's desk
awaiting his signature, a respected Los Angeles narcotics
detective was formally accusing the Contras in court of
raising money by selling cocaine to black Americans. It is
not difficult to imagine what would have happened to the
Contra project had that information gotten out. Unlike the
earlier allegations of Contra drug dealing that had
appeared sporadically in the press over the past ten
months, Gordon's charges would not be easy for the law-
and-order Reagan administration to dismiss as the
fantasies of a Sandinista sympathizer or a convicted drug
dealer. This time, the accusations were coming from the
police—under oath—in black and white.
Gordon's affidavit was persuasive enough for Municipal
Court judge Glenette Blackwell. She gave the detective his
search warrant.
The next day, October 24, Gordon conducted a lengthy
preraid briefing at the sheriff's training center, handing out
raid plans, briefing booklets, raid assignments, and radio
frequencies, and locating command centers.
As drug raids went, this was going to be a big one. "On
Monday, October 27, 1986, a 30-day investigation will
culminate by executing a search warrant that will be served
at fourteen locations in Los Angeles, Orange and San

===== PDF PAGE 502 =====
Bernardino Counties," the briefing book stated. It would
involve more than forty-five agents from the Majors, the
DEA, the IRS, the ATF, the San Bernardino County sheriff,
and Bell police. Gordon split the officers into seven groups,
each responsible for searching two locations.
Gordon's briefing left no doubts about who and what the
police were up against: "The investigation centers around a
male Nicaraguan named Danilo Blandón. The Blandón
organization is believed to be moving hundreds of kilos of
cocaine a month in the Southern California area and the
money is laundered through a variety of business fronts and
then sent to Florida where the money goes toward the
purchase of arms to aid the 'Contra' rebels fighting the civil
war in Nicaragua."
Gordon also mentioned that the drug ring involved a
crooked ex-cop from Laguna Beach, Ronald Lister, who
was known to have access to large quantities of heavy
weapons. He was to be considered extremely dangerous.
Several of the officers in attendance distinctly recalled
being warned that the federal government was unhappy that
the Majors were going ahead with the raids. Deputy William
Wolfbrandt said Gordon reported that he had "been
contacted by someone from the government who told him
not to do the warrant. . .. I thought it was pretty bitchin' just
going out and doing it anyhow."
Lieutenant Mike Fossey, the Majors' intelligence officer,
said it "was before the warrant [was served] that we were
forewarned that there may be a CIA link"; information had
"filtered down" that the "CIA and the Contras were dealing
in arms and cocaine for Nicaragua."
According to Deputy Virgil Bartlett, the general belief
among the police that day was that "the U.S. government
backed the operation. . .. The government was bringing

===== PDF PAGE 503 =====
drugs into the country and shipping weapons back out."
Bartlett said he was informed that Ronald Lister "had done
jobs for the federal government, and we weren't so sure he
hadn't done hits for them." (No evidence has surfaced
linking Lister to murder.)
Jerry Guzzetta, who was assigned to search Blandón's
mountain cabin near Big Bear ski resort, glanced around
the briefing room to see which federal agents were there.
To his surprise, they were not the ones he'd been working
with during the investigation. Guzzetta thought it "strange
that federal agents from the Riverside DEA and FBI offices
initially worked with the L.A. Sheriff's Narcotics
investigators on the Blandón case, but Los Angeles DEA
and FBI agents were present at the briefing and later during
the warrant execution."
Around 7:00 
A.M.
 on Monday, October 27, the raid teams
gathered at their designated staging areas, taking their last
few gulps of coffee and strapping on their bulletproof raid
vests. As they methodically went through their final
preparations, coincidentally, another kind of ritual was
unfolding back in Washington.
That day Ronald Reagan would triumphantly sign his
name to the bill authorizing the CIA to spend $100 million
on the Contras. It was now official. After a two-year
absence, the CIA was back in the Contra business.
As Danilo Blandón's neighbors stepped onto their
porches to retrieve that morning's edition of the 
L.A. Times
—
the front page was headlined "Contras Seek Quick
Results on Two Fronts"—four big cars roared up to
Blandón's elegant home and disgorged eleven heavily
armed men wearing flak jackets. They quickly surrounded
the house and banged on the front door, hollering that they
had a warrant. "We'd certainly never seen the likes of it,"

===== PDF PAGE 504 =====
one elderly neighbor said. "It was the talk of the
neighborhood for quite some time, I can tell you. And they
seemed like such a nice family. They had a maid, and the
two little girls were so cute."
Chepita Blandón, wearing a pink housecoat, sleepily
opened the door, and Deputy Dan Gainer of Majors II thrust
Gordon's warrant in her face. The raid team shouldered her
aside and fanned out through the two-story house, emptying
drawers and closets. Blandón, wearing a pair of green
shorts and a brown shirt, stood silently by his ten-year-old
daughter and watched the agents rummage around. The
maid, Rosa Garcia, cuddled the Blandóns' twenty-one-
month-old daughter.
Jerry Guzzetta brought in a drug-sniffing dog, and the
hound alerted in the master bedroom and the rec room. A
search of the bedroom turned up an envelope with a gram
of cocaine in it, a maroon briefcase with three-tenths of a
gram of cocaine inside, an AR-15 assault rifle with five full
magazines of ammunition, a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun
with three boxes of shells, $163, and some assorted
papers.
Out in the detached recreation room, which had a full bar
and pool table overlooking the golf course, Deputy
Wolfbrandt found an envelope behind the bar with a folded
$10 bill inside; the bill held one and a half grams of
cocaine. He also found "pay-owe" sheets—records of drug
transactions.
It wasn't much, but a couple grams of coke and some
pay-owes were all the detectives needed to justify an arrest
for possession for sale of a controlled substance. They
slapped handcuffs on both Blandón and his wife, read them
their rights, and marched them out to the waiting cars for a
trip to the San Bernardino County Sheriff's station—and jail.

===== PDF PAGE 505 =====
"As the suspects were being taken from the location to
be booked," the police report said, "suspect #1 [Danilo
Blandón] spontaneously stated, 'The cocaine is mine. The
cocaine is mine. It's mine.'"
Now the cops had a confession to go with the coke. The
drug kingpin was as good as convicted.
Across town, however, the other raid teams were not
doing as well. Location after location was coming up dry.
Some of the houses looked as if they had been scrubbed
clean. One officer reported finding an empty safe with a
garden hose running into it. Another said an occupant told
him he'd been expecting him for an hour.
DEA agent I lector Berrellez—who would later discover
evidence of CIA drug trafficking in Mexico—was one of the
L.A. agents assigned to the Blandón raids. He
accompanied the team that hit Roberto Aguilar's house,
who was reputed to be Blandón's chemist. "There was a
safe at the house which the occupants were told to open,"
Berrellez told Justice Department inspectors. Inside was "a
box containing photographs, and ledgers typical of those
that big drug dealers keep. . .the photographs were of men
in military uniforms, and military operations." The agent
specifically recalled seeing "a photograph of a man in an
aviator's flight suit standing before a warplane and holding
an automatic weapon."
Berrellez said the people in Aguilar's house told the
police they knew the search was coming and had been
expecting the raid team. They didn't say how they knew,
Berrellez said, but he'd heard the CIA may have monitored
the Blandón case through the DEA's El Paso Intelligence
Center—EPIC—from which the CIA, among other
agencies, draws sensitive narcotics intelligence.
The word started circulating among the raiders.

===== PDF PAGE 506 =====
Something was fucked. "We're just going through the
motions," one of the officers griped.
Down the coast in Orange County, Detective Bobby
Juarez and his team were banging on Ronald Lister's door
in Mission Viejo. Receiving no reply, they kicked it open.
The house was uninhabited, but it wasn't empty. The
detectives came out carrying bags of records, card files,
video monitors, and photographs, which they tossed in a
patrol car. A neighbor wandered over and told them that the
Listers didn't live there anymore. They'd moved recently to
an even bigger house a couple miles away. "Male and
female Latins were now living at the Lagarto address," the
neighbor reported. Some of the seized paperwork showed
the neighbor was right: there were letters, video rental
receipts, and bank records for someone named Aparicio
Moreno and his wife, Aura.
The discovery of those documents corroborated another
accusation that the DEA informant inside Blandón's ring
had made: that Aparicio Moreno, a Colombian, was
involved in the Contra drug operation. The informant
described Moreno as a cocaine supplier and money
launderer to both Norwin Meneses's San Francisco-based
branch and Blandón's network in L.A., and said Moreno, his
wife, and his family had hauled millions in drug profits to
Miami for the two Nicaraguans, hidden in an innocuous-
looking motor home.
Blandón would later admit that Moreno had supplied him
with "so many" thousands of kilos of cocaine in 1984 and
1985 that he couldn't put an exact number on them. He said
he was introduced to Moreno by Norwin Meneses and
worked with the Colombian until 1987. It is likely that
Meneses turned Blandón over to Moreno when Meneses
moved to Costa Rica to work as a DEA informant. Ronald

===== PDF PAGE 507 =====
Lister would tell police in 1996 that Moreno was "affiliated
with [the] FDN," and Blandón strongly suggested the same
thing during his interviews with the CIA Inspector Ceneral's
Office.
Blandón claimed that Moreno arranged "at least one 1-
ton delivery that was delivered by air via Oklahoma," a
summary of his CIA interview states. Blandón said "he and
his associates thought the plane might be connected with
the CIA because someone had placed a small FDN sticker
somewhere on the airplane. This was just a rumor though."
It was a rumor that the CIA Inspector General apparently
never bothered investigating, as there is no further mention
of Aparicio Moreno in the entire declassified report. But
considering what else is known about the mysterious
Colombian, the omission is not surprising. Moreno had an
affinity for dealing dope to people with CIA connections.
Records show DEA agent Celerino Castillo III ran across
Aparicio Moreno's trail in Guatemala in 1988 while
investigating allegations of drug trafficking by a
Guatemalan CIA agent, Julio Roberto Alpirez. A high-
ranking officer in the Guatemalan military and a fixture on
the CIA's payroll there, Colonel Alpirez was accused by the
president's Foreign Intelligence Oversight Board in 1996 of
covering up the murder of an American innkeeper in
Guatemala, Michael Devine.
Castillo said he discovered that Aparicio Moreno was
both supplying Colonel Alpirez with cocaine and selling
drugs for Alpirez that had been seized by the Guatemalan
military. Castillo believes Devine was killed by Guatemalan
soldiers after he had discovered that the military was
moving cocaine, a theory that has never been proven.
DEA files obtained under the Freedom of Information Act
confirmed that Castillo reported Moreno's activities in

===== PDF PAGE 508 =====
Guatemala to the DEA, but the agency censored all of the
information in his reports. From the records, it appears
Moreno was also working as a DEA informant, in addition
to his other activities.
After securing Moreno's residence, Juarez and his crew
raced over to Lister's new house and performed a "soft
knock." Since they didn't have a warrant for that address,
they needed Lister's permission to search it. A rumpled
man in a bathrobe opened the door and stood there calmly
while Juarez explained the facts of life to him. "If you don't
give me permission to come in, I'm going to stand out here
with these guys until a judge signs it and then we're going to
come later on today," Lister said Juarez told him. "So that's
your choice. What's it gonna be?" Lister said he was living
in "a nice community" and didn't like the idea of heavily
armed officers hanging around in public view, so he invited
them in.
According to Juarez, he told Lister they were executing a
search warrant for drugs and asked him to sign a consent
form. Lister's response brought the deputy up short.
"I 
know
 why you're here," Lister told him, "but why are you
here? Mr. Weekly knows what I'm doing and you're not
supposed to be here." Lister "told me that he had dealings
in South America and worked with the CIA and added that
his friends in Washington weren't going to like what was
going on," Juarez's report of the search stated. "I told Mr.
Lester [sic] that we were not interested in his business in
South America. Mr. Lester replied that he would call Mr.
Weekly of the CIA and report me."
Juarez decided to call Lister's bluff. "I don't know who Mr.
Weekly is," the detective told Lister. "Let me talk to him. If I
find out I'm not supposed to be here, I'll leave."
Juarez silently urged Lister to make the call so "I could

===== PDF PAGE 509 =====
get a phone record trace and find out who it was he was
calling." Lister walked over to the phone and started dialing
a number. "He looked at me, smiled, and then put it back
down again," Juarez said. "He figured out what I was
doing."
"Never mind," Lister told the deputy. "I'll talk to him later."
Lister claimed later he was planning to call his attorney
and decided not to antagonize Juarez by doing so. He
denied telling anyone he was working with the CIA, but
other members of the raid team had very different
recollections.
Sergeant Art Fransen said Lister erupted in a "tirade"
and began shouting, "You guys don't know what you are
doing. Oh, you don't know who you're dealing with. I deal
with the CIA. I got power!"
Deputy Richard Love said Lister warned them, "You don't
know what you're doing. There's a bigger picture here. I'm
working for the CIA. I know the director of the CIA in Los
Angeles. The government is allowing drug sales to go on in
the United States." Love said Lister also "seemed to have
some intimate details about a plane loaded with guns that
crashed in Nicaragua and about the pilot. Lister alluded to
the fact that he had been on one of those planes before and
had actually been down there on a gun run."
Sergeant Fransen, an ex-Marine, poked around in a file
cabinet in Lister's garage and said he found "stuff that a
civilian shouldn't have or be privy to. . .paperwork,
pamphlets and manuals relating to technical stuff
concerning armaments."
Lister would later say that the cops may have gotten the
wrong idea about him because he "was involved in legal
arms sales. The deputies saw various weapons, scopes,
pictures, literature or paperwork on arms and items that

===== PDF PAGE 510 =====
were tagged 'Not for Sale in U.S.' " In Lister's account,
members of the raid team "became fascinated with what
they found," and Sergeant Fransen walked by him later and
muttered, "Man, you've gotta be CIA."
No drugs were found, and Lister was not arrested. The
raiders packed up the paperwork and hauled it back down
to the sheriff's station, where it was logged into the Master
Narcotics Evidence Control ledger as "miscellaneous CIA
info." Another report noted that there was "a lot of Contra
rebel correspondence found."
As the raid teams straggled back to the sheriff's
headquarters throughout the morning and early afternoon,
the deputies compared notes and concluded that they'd
been had. Someone had burned their warrant—and their
suspicions immediately fell on the federal agents.
"After the search warrants had been served, the word
among the investigators was that the operation had been
compromised," said former Lieutenant Mike Fossey. "It
appeared to have been snitched off by somebody in
another agency, which is probably not a local agency, but
probably an agency back towards the east, a big agency, a
government agency."
Guzzetta was convinced federal agents had burned the
investigation, pointing out that previous raids they'd
conducted on the basis of the Torres brothers' information
had always produced large amounts of cocaine and
money. The only difference between those raids and
Blandón's, he said, was the involvement of the FBI and
DEA.
Deputy Love said it "was mutually agreed upon between
narcotics investigators that the suspects had been tipped
off."
In a case chronology prepared in late 1986, Majors II

===== PDF PAGE 511 =====
supervisor Sergeant Ed Huffman noted that "items seized
(such as scales, weights, cocaine cutting agents) indicate
cocaine activity. The small amount of cocaine (approx. 3
grams) seized is in contrast to the investigation indicators
(informant's information, surveillance observations,
background information). Did a burn occur? Possible, but
can't say where or by who."
The Torres brothers would claim that the investigation
was uncovered by Lister, who'd spotted police surveillance
teams outside of Blandón's car lot and near his old house
in Mission Viejo. Lister told the police and the CIA the
same story and said he informed Blandón about it two
weeks before the raids. "Lister states that Blandón simply
smiled, but did not comment," a 1998 CIA report states.
However, Assistant U.S. Attorney L. J. O'Neale, who
investigated Lister and Blandón for several years, said the
sheriff's probe was compromised by an FBI agent who did
"a clumsy investigation and contacted somebody who knew
Blandón and this person told Blandón about the inquiry." In
an interview with the CIA, Blandón said he "suspected
there would be searches after FBI agents interviewed one
of his employees."
But the Justice Department's Inspector General was
unable to find evidence of any contact between FBI agents
and Blandón's associates in the weeks leading up to the
raids.
The deputies' suspicions of federal interference grew
even stronger once they began examining the stacks of
papers they'd hauled out of the houses. These people
weren't just dope dealers, they realized. They were dope
dealers who were dealing with the Contras and, apparently,
the U.S. government. Deputy Bartlctt recalled seeing
photos of Lister in a Contra military compound "standing

===== PDF PAGE 512 =====
with a general, and in the background were tents, munitions
and automatic weapons." He also saw "U.S. Army training
manuals and videotapes concerning deployment, supply,
ordnance and bomb disposal," telephone records showing
calls to Nicaragua, letters bearing Nicaraguan postmarks,
and "possibly one document. . .which had an FBI
letterhead."
"Some of the paperwork contained what he reeognized
from his military career as Department of Defense codes,"
according to Deputy John Hurtado. Other papers, Hurtado
told police investigators, "contained some type of reference
to the Central Intelligence Agency. Hurtado believed some
of the papers had 'CIA' handwritten or typed on them. He
also recalled a note pad was written in what he described
as some type of Department of Defense code." When
Hurtado questioned raid leader Tom Gordon, Gordon told
him "they had gotten involved in something over their
heads."
Deputy Dan Garner saw handwritten lists of weapons—
specifically AR-15 assault rifles—and papers that involved
"transporting weapons from one location to another." He
also recalled "that there were manuals on various weapons,
military training films, and photographs of military bases. .
.the manuals and films seemed to have been standard U.S.
government military issue." Garner said that they involved
"higher-tech equipment such as ground-to-air missiles,"
and that it was "unusual to have recovered these items in a
search warrant."
Deputy Juarez described some of the paperwork as
containing "references about Mr. Weekly and his contacts
in Teheran relating to the hostages." He saw "training
manuals and training films for state of the art weapons—
Stinger missiles, tanks, and other armored vehicles."

===== PDF PAGE 513 =====
Observed Lieutenant Fossey: "If it was just arms they
were talking about on that paperwork, it's still interesting
that we had a drug investigation going here."
What was even more interesting were some of the files
the cops had found in Blandón's house: a big stack of bank
records, showing deposits in seven bank accounts. "Some
of these deposits were marked 'U.S. Treasury/State' and
totalled approximately $9,000,000," the Justice
Department Inspector General wrote. "Other deposits were
marked Cayman Islands and totaled about $883,000."
Stuck amongst the bank records was a note, in Spanish,
from Blandón's sister, Leysla Balladares, an FDN member
who did Contra fundraising in San Francisco.
"Little brother," the note began. "There arc the bank
statements of the suppliers of the Contra. They have issued
checks to different persons and companies, the same to
the Cayman Islands. These are just one part and is the
continuation of the report you have. I'll later send you the
rest so you can laugh."
Balladares told Justice Department investigators that
she got the documents from a Contra official shortly before
he was killed in I londuras, and said they documented how
Contra officials were stealing money and perhaps
laundering it through the Cayman Islands. She'd sent Danilo
copies because she thought he would be "amused at the
level of corruption of some of the Contras."
The documents partly solved one of the day's mysteries
—the identity of Lister's purported CIA contact, Mr. Weekly.
Weekly's name was found in a sheaf of handwritten papers
dealing with weapons and equipment sales. The
documents included a list of armaments: antiaircraft
weapons, fire bombs, 1,000 AR-15 semiautomatic rifles,
air-to-sea torpedos, and napalm bombs.

===== PDF PAGE 514 =====
The next page bore a list of names and phone numbers.
Near the name 'Aparicio," Lister had written: "FDN
coordinator." Another list of names included Bill Nelson, the
CIA's former deputy director of operations; Salvadoran
politicians Roberto D'Aubuisson and Ray Prendes; and
someone named Scott Weekly.
In another document, Lister had written, "I had regular
meeting with DIA subcontractor Scott Weekly. Scott had
worked in El Salvador for us. Meeting concern my
relationship with Contra grp. in Cent. Am." (The DIA—
Defense Intelligence Agency—is the Pentagon's version of
the CIA, responsible for collecting military-related foreign
intelligence. It was heavily involved in the Contra war and in
the civil war in El Salvador.)
The detectives were confused. DIA? I ladn't Lister said
Weekly was with the CIA? What the hell was the DIA?
When the detectives read the confidential security proposal
that Lister's Pyramid International security company made
to the government of El Salvador in 1982, they knew they
were in unfamiliar territory. They'd never run into drug
dealers who did business with heads of state.
Detective Juarez, who also translated the bulky
document from Spanish to English for the flabbergasted
detectives, said he became concerned that the records
"would not remain in evidence for very long because of their
sensitive subject matter." He made a copy of the Pyramid
International proposal and took it home with him. That
decision, Juarez suspects, probably cost his brother-in-law,
Manuel Gómez, a 32-year-old Salvadoran jeweler, his life.
Juarez told the author that in 1993 he gave Gómez a copy
of Lister's security proposal. His brother-in-law
sympathized with the leftist rebels in El Salvador and was
active in the Salvadoran solidarity movement in Los

===== PDF PAGE 515 =====
Angeles. Gómez was going to get the documents to an
underground radio station in El Salvador in hopes of
publicizing this example of the U.S. government's unsavory
involvement in Salvadoran internal affairs.
"Two weeks after the document made its way to the
underground radio station in February 1993, Manuel
Gómez was found murdered in his ear," Juarez told police
investigators. He said Gómez "had apparently been
tortured and strangled with a wire. His body was found
wrapped in a blanket." When the police checked out
Juarez's claims, they found that Manuel Gómez had indeed
been strangled in 1993, his body dumped in the trunk of a
car in South Central L.A. They also found a note in the
homicide case files reporting that Deputy Juarez had called
the police five days after the murder to tell them that his
brother-in-law "had government documents in his
possession that may have provided a motive for the
murder." But the homicide investigators decided politics
had little to do with the killing. After picking up rumors that
Gómez was dealing drugs in South Central, they wrote the
death off as drug-related and didn't pursue it much further.
The killer was never apprehended.
Juarez sat down at a computer terminal and entered
Ronald Lister's name into the NIN (Narcotics Information
Network) database to make sure that any other narcotics
agents who encountered him knew what they were dealing
with. He reported that Lister had been searched in
connection with a narcotics investigation, "and locations
were cleaned out. Documents recovered indicate that
Suspect Lister is involved in buying and selling police and
government radio equipment and heavy duty weapons.
Suspect possibly P BI informant and private detective."
Other deputies also began furtively copying some of

===== PDF PAGE 516 =====
Lister's papers. Deputy Garner grabbed a handful of
records, including Lister's handwritten notes, as did
Lieutenant Fossey. Fossey and Garner took the copies
home with them "to safeguard them from loss or theft,"
Fossey explained. It would prove to be a wise precaution.
A few hours after the raids, Blandón's lawyer, Bradley
Brunon, called the sheriff's station to ask where his clients
were and how he could bail them out. He said Tom Gordon
answered the phone and tore him a new asshole.
"He was a vile, vicious son of a bitch," Brunon recalled.
He said Gordon screamed, "I'm not telling you anything!
You're worse than they are!"
"'Fuck,' I said, 'I just called up to find out where you're
going to arraign the guy.'"
"'Fuck you! I don't have to tell you!' I mean just, boom, off
the wall."
So Brunon called Gordon's supervisor, Sergeant Ed
Huffman. Huffman took notes of the odd conversation,
which he later passed along to the FBI. Huffman had
suspected all along that there was something creepy about
the Blandón case, and the phone call from Brunon clinched
it. "Thought you knew CIA kinda winks at that activity,"
Brunon told the astonished detective. "Now that U.S.
Congress had voted funds for Nicaraguan Contra
movement, U.S. government now appears to be turning
against organizations like this."
In an interview, Brunon confirmed that as "not far from
what I said."
According to former narcotics bureau captain Robert
Wilber, Sergeant Huffman came to see him afterward and
sourly remarked, "We bust our ass and the government's
involved." The deputies "were upset about the incident,"
Wilber said, but he didn't take it too seriously because he

===== PDF PAGE 517 =====
thought they were using it as an excuse not to work with
federal agents again.
If the Majors needed any more excuses, they got another
one quickly enough. According to Deputy Bartlett, "Two
federal agents came into the office looking angry. With the
agents were a 'zone' lieutenant and the Narcotics Bureau
admin lieutenant, both of whom also appeared angry. . ..
The agents put some of the evidence into boxes and then
walked out of the office." Sergeant Huffman's daily diaries
and other records recently found in the Sheriff's Office's
archives confirm that agents from the DEA, FBI, and IRS
arrived at the narcotics bureau on October 30 and for two
days pored through the seized files, making copies of
everything.
Later that night, a cable from the CIA's Los Angeles
office marked "Immediate Director" buzzed out of the
teletype machine at CIA headquarters in Langley, Virginia.
Entitled "Three Persons Claiming CIA Affiliation," the once-
secret cable stated, "Three individuals claiming CIA
affiliation have been arrested by Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Department on narcotics related charges. Details
received via FBI are sketchy. However, request preliminary
traces to determine if any of the three listed below have CIA
connections." The first person named was Ronald Lister,
who "claims that for many years he has assisted in
supplying small arms and helicopters to CIA contacts in
Latin and Central America." The cable also named Danilo
Blandón, identified as an accomplice of Lister. Curiously, it
also asked for a trace on Norwin Meneses, who was
identified as another accomplice of Lister's. Why the Los
Angeles CIA was asking about Meneses in connection with
the Blandón raid is unclear, since he was neither arrested,
named in the search warrant affidavit, nor even living in the

===== PDF PAGE 518 =====
United States.
"Please respond immediate indicating what portions of
response may be passed to local law enforcement
authorities," the cable concludeed. Langley cabled back
the next day; there were no headquarters traces on
Blandón and Lister, but Meneses was "apparently well
known as the Nicaraguan Mafia, dealing in drugs,
weapons, and smuggling and laundering of counterfeit
money." What happened next is still a matter of dispute.
After the raids, Sergeant Gordon and Deputy Juarez said
they took a couple of days off. When they returned to work,
Gordon said, he was told by deputy Dan Garner that the
CIA had come into the offices and taken the records the
Majors had seized during the raid. Gordon didn't believe it
and went to the evidence room to check.
The papers were no longer there.
According to Garner, Gordon walked back into the squad
room and announced, "The evidence is gone." Juarez said
he ran over to the evidence lockup and confirmed what
Gordon was saying. Nothing was left. Both Juarez and
Gordon claimed they never saw the documents again.
In addition to the seized documents, said Blandón's
attorney, Brad Brunon, the official police records of the raid
seemed to disappear also. Despite his best efforts, he was
unable to come up with more than an informal note about
the preraid briefing, and that only by accident a couple
years after the raid. "For a long time, they (the Sheriff's
Office) never acknowledged the existence of this warrant. I
mean the whole thing was quite mysterious. Boom, they did
15 locations. Nothing turned up. Nobody got busted. There
was a little tiny bit of cocaine found in one location. Nobody
got filed on. They gave all the stuff back. The whole thing
just was very strange," Brunon said. "I'd never had a case

===== PDF PAGE 519 =====
where all the reports disappeared. I mean, early on, the only
theory I had was the CIA involvement."
An investigation by the L.A. County Sheriff's Office in late
1996 strongly disputed the idea that "mysterious federal
agents swooped down. . .and stole away with any
documents relating to this case. Investigators have
determined that this allegation was apparently spread
through second-hand rumor and innuendo among some
members of the narcotics team personnel." The
department said that for each item seized, "there is a
consistent paper trail."
The paper trail, however, raises more suspicions than it
quiets. If the Sheriff's Office files are accurate, nearly all of
the seized evidence was given back to Blandón and Lister
within days of the raid, and apparently no copies were
retained by the department, even for intelligence purposes.
The Sheriff's 1996 investigation failed to find a single
document that had been seized during the raids. As for the
piles of copies made by the federal agents in the days
following the raids, nearly all of those have disappeared
also. According to the Justice Department Inspector
General, neither the DEA, the FBI, or the U.S. Attorney's
office could locate a single one of the more than 1,000
pages of documents the agents copied. The IRS,
fortunately, still had some stashed away.
All of the property that wasn't claimed—including the
cocaine and the weapons manuals—was allegedly
destroyed within six months. That destruction occurred
while the investigation was still listed as open and active.
As Jerry Guzzetta had done earlier, the L.A. County
Sheriff's Office soon concluded that the Blandón case was
just too big for it to handle alone. Sergeant Huffman "did not
believe it was the proper responsibility of the L.A. Sheriff's

===== PDF PAGE 520 =====
Department to investigate the activities of the CIA," he
said; he and his superiors "felt it would be more
appropriately handled by federal agencies from that point
because there was evidence that there was a continuing
narcotics trafficking organization which involved a very
large geographical area." When the U.S. Department of
Justice stepped in and offered to adopt the investigation,
the Majors had no objections. Sergeant Gordon, in fact,
was no longer around, having been promoted and
transferred out of the Majors.
According to Sergeant Huffman's notes, one of the first
things the federal agents did was to put Gordon's
bombshell search warrant affidavit under court seal, which
kept it from becoming public. The affidavit also
disappeared from the Sheriff's Office case files and was
never found again. (In 1996 Sheriff Sherman Block
sheepishly admitted that his investigators were unable to
locate a copy of the affidavit in the department's files and
had to use the author's copy, which had been posted by the
San Jose Mercury News
 on its Web site. And again, the
only reason that copy existed was because an officer took
a copy of the affidavit home shortly after the raid.)
Huffman was then informed that no charges would be
filed against Blandón, "to protect the ongoing investigation
and informants." Despite being caught red-handed with
cocaine—and admitting it was his—the drug kingpin was
set free. Federal prosecutors interviewed called that a
stunning decision, given Blandón's stature as one of L.A.'s
biggest traffickers and the fact that he was in the U.S.
seeking political asylum at the time. The mere fact of the
arrest should have been enough to deport him, his wife,
and every other Nicaraguan implicated. "If he was a major
trafficker and we got him with even a little bit, he'd have

===== PDF PAGE 521 =====
been prosecuted," said former federal strike force attorney
Brian Leighton, who worked in central California during
those years. "You could also charge him with conspiracy,
because in conspiracy cases you don't need any dope. I've
done plenty of no-dope conspiracy cases. Just because he
has [only] a half a gram doesn't mean you let him go."
But Blandón was not merely turned loose. On December
10, 1986, he has said, he was formally notified that the
case against him had been dropped and that there would
be no charges filed. That day, records show, he drove into
Los Angeles and hired a lawyer to file an application for
permanent residency with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, which would make it much more
difficult to deport him in the future.
Blandón's choice of attorneys was interesting; he hired a
man who was then under federal indictment for immigration
fraud, and a cocaine addict to boot. Just a week before
Blandón retained him, attorney John M. Garrisi had been
charged with illegally smuggling Iranian scientists into the
United States. Garrisi's lawyer, Roy Koletsky, said Garrisi
had "a pipeline" into the Iranian community and had been
bringing Iranians into the States since "around the time the
Shah was deposed. He had a number of Iranians working
in his office. They spoke Farsi at the office."
At Garrisi's disbarment hearing, it was alleged that he
had been criss-crossing the globe in his quest to get
Iranians into the United States, creating phony immigration
records with an apparently genuine stamp from the Iranian
Ministry of Justice and referring clients to an expert
document forger. He was also accused of cheating clients
of money. Garrisi "repeatedly stated he believed he had a
duty (emphasizing repeatedly the word 'duty') to bring
'these people' (most of his visa clients are Iranian) into the

===== PDF PAGE 522 =====
United States," a California Bar Association report stated.
"He strongly inferred that he would pursue that duty even
against their expressed wishes."
Koletsky had no idea what "duty" Garrisi was talking
about, he said, and Garrisi did not respond to interview
requests. After one mistrial, he was convicted in 1987 of
making false statements and sent to federal prison for a
year.
Blandón's application for permanent residency, which
disclosed his membership in an unnamed "anti-communist
organization," reported that he had been arrested for
"possession of drugs and weapons" in October 1986 but
added, "They didn't find nothing." Under "Outcome of
Case," Blandón wrote: "No complaint filed. They
exonerated me 12-10-86."
On December 11, 1986, one day after Blandón says he
was "exonerated," the director of the FBI sent a long
teletype to the CIA's deputy director for operations and the
director of the DIA. 'The teletype said the FBI was doing an
"investigation focused on a cocaine distribution operation
principally comprised of Nicaraguan nationals. Significant
quantities of cocaine are reportedly distributed throughout
the West Coast." Furthermore, "Information provided to FBI
Los Angeles indicates that subject Ronald Jay Lister has
made statements concerning his 'CIA contact,' identified by
Lister as 'Mr. Weekly.' Investigation has also identified
documents indicating that Lister has been in contact with
'Scott Weekly' of the DIA."
The CIA replied that it had information only on Meneses
and Murillo. The DIA claimed it didn't know anything at all.
But that didn't keep Riverside FBI agent Doug Aukland
from digging a little further. He decided to do some
checking on "Mr. Weekly," Ronald Lister's alleged CIA

===== PDF PAGE 523 =====
contact.
"Scott Weekly is an arms dealer in San Diego," the
agent told Sergeant Huffman in mid-January 1987. "Can't
confirm Weekly is or isn't CIA connected." But that was only
because Aukland wasn't asking the right people: his own
bosses in Washington. By then, records show, senior
officials at the U.S. Department of Justice had Weekly
under investigation and were intimately familiar with him
because they had been reading transcripts of his telephone
conversations. Those transcripts suggested that Scott
Weekly was connected not only to the CIA but to the
National Security Council and the U.S. State Department
as well.

===== PDF PAGE 524 =====
19

===== PDF PAGE 525 =====
"He reports to people reporting to
Bush"
I
t really didn't take an FBI agent to figure out who or what
Scott Weekly was. A librarian could have done it. Weekly
had been something of an inadvertent celebrity back in
1983. A story in the 
Los Angeles Times
, in fact, gave him
the nickname that would stick with him for years: Doctor
Death.
"Scott's kind of a tough little guy," said Ronald Lister's
longtime attorney, Lynn Ball. "He got busted out of the
Naval Academy and entered the service as an enlisted
man. Went on to become a SEAL. Then after he got out, he
had some friends in Virginia. Essentially, Scott was
involved in the same kind of bullshit that Ron was—
providing security."
A federal public defender told a judge in 1987 that
Weekly was "some sort of a combination between John
Wayne and Rambo and Oliver North, perhaps, and James
Bond. . .. He does have an involvement, a lengthy
involvement, in some rather mysterious activities."
Weekly, a classmate of North's at Annapolis, would later
say he was kicked out of the Naval Academy in 1968
"because of the buildup of a large number of demerits." He
joined the SEALs—the navy's most elite band of fighters—
and became a demolition and weapons expert, thus
earning his macabre sobriquet. He was awarded two
Bronze Stars in Vietnam, where, according to his lawyer,
he was involved in "extensive combat duty and numerous
intelligence operations." He later married the daughter of
an admiral.
A U.S. Customs agent told federal investigators that

===== PDF PAGE 526 =====
Weekly's stint with the SEALS gave him "contacts in the
intelligence community, including the CIA and NSA
(National Security Agency)."
In 1983, he and several other Americans were arrested
in Nakhon Phanom, a small Thai village near the border of
Laos, while on a covert mission to gather intelligence on
American soldiers missing from the Vietnam war. The head
of the Defense Intelligence Agency had wanted to find out,
once and for all, if rumors of American POWs being held in
Laotian prison camps were true. (It was from this incident
that the Sylvester Stallone movie 
Rambo
 took its
inspiration.)
Leading the expedition was former Army Green Beret
lieutenant colonel James "Bo" Gritz, a decorated Vietnam
war hero and former commander of the U.S. Special
Forces in the Panama Canal Zone. Though he ostensibly
retired from the military in 1979, Gritz said that for several
years afterward he worked with an army intelligence unit
known as the Intelligence Support Activity (ISA), trying to
locate American POWs in Southeast Asia. According to
author Steven Emerson, the ISA, known in military
intelligence circles as "the Activity," provided Gritz with
"tens of thousands of dollars' worth of cameras, polygraph
equipment (to check the veracity of Indochinese sources),
radio communications systems and plane tickets to
Bangkok. Gritz was also given satellite photos and other
intelligence data." The operation was code-named "Grand
Eagle." Dr. Death was Gritz's right-hand man.
In congressional testimony, Gritz said "Grand Eagle" was
officially shelved after a bureaucratic dispute between "the
Activity" and the DIA. Deputy DIA director Admiral Allan
Paulson confirmed to Congress that a "Department of
Defense organization. . .proposed an operation using Mr.

===== PDF PAGE 527 =====
Gritz in a collection capacity," but Paulson said the
operation was turned down "at the first level of the approval
process."
The official rejection didn't end the mission, however.
With the ISA's equipment and money at their disposal, Gritz
and Weekly proceeded under the ironic code name
"Operation Lazarus." Weekly's contributions, according to
a 1983 
Soldier of Fortune
 magazine story, included
"having silencers altered to fit the 9-mm submachine guns
to be used by Gritz and the team."
The first mission, in November 1982, resulted in a
firefight with Laotian forces, and one member of Gritz's
team was killed. As he prepared to make another stab at
infiltrating Laos in early 1983, word of his mission was
leaked to 
Soldier of Fortune
 magazine and picked up by
the 
Los Angeles Times
 and the 
Boston Globe
. Exposed,
Gritz and his squad were arrested by Thai poliee at the
edge of the Mekong River and charged with possession of
an illegal radio transmitter. Gritz, Weekly, and two others—
an antiterrorism expert and the daughter of a missing U.S.
pilot—were jailed and held for trial.
In a letter to the 
L.A. Times
, Gritz said that "CIA-DIA
knew" of the mission and provided him with a variety of
high-tech gear. Both agencies disavowed any knowledge
of Gritz's missions but the denials were difficult to believe.
"U.S. sources in Bangkok said the radio was the latest in
U.S.-made spy gear with a powerful transmitter that was to
have been used to send messages from Laos straight to
Washington," United Press International reported. "The
disclosure of the radio's type and purpose bolstered the
credibility of Gritz's statements that his first mission into
Laos last November and his apparently just-completed
second mission was carried out with the blessing of U.S.

===== PDF PAGE 528 =====
intelligence officials."
UPI's perceptiveness was short-lived. Those telling
paragraphs were cut from the UPI story that moved later
that afternoon, and from then on most press reports
uncritically accepted the government's denials. Gritz and
Weekly were dismissed as beer-can commandos off on
their own private mission.
A year later, however, syndicated columnist Jack
Anderson reported that Gritz's team had been sent into
Southeast Asia "with at least initial support from the CIA
and the Pentagon." Anderson based that conclusion on
confidential court records filed in a federal fraud case in
Honolulu, Hawaii, involving a polo-playing investment
banker named Ronald Ray Rewald, who was accused of
stealing millions from his bankrupt company's clients.
Rewald claimed his investment company had been a
conduit for the CIA to secretly funnel money to covert
operations around the world, and that the agency had
suddenly yanked its accounts, causing the firm to collapse.
The CIA admitted to Congress that Rewald's company
"had some ties to the CIA" and that several CIA officials
had investment accounts there. Anderson put it more
bluntly: "Rewald's investment firm was hip-deep in active or
retired CIA employees."
In an affidavit, Rewald said the CIA "had originally
committed its support" to Gritz's mission and that Rewald
"did supply a few thousand dollars to support the mission at
the CIA's behest." According to Anderson, the "bombshell
of Rewald's exhibits is a confidential letter to Gritz on
official DIA stationery" instructing Gritz, to "pull together
evidence to convince political skeptics of the POW
existence."
(As an aside, Rewald also told Anderson that he was

===== PDF PAGE 529 =====
approached in 1982 by "a senior CIA official and asked if
he would help in a CIA drug-smuggling operation. When
Rewald told the CIA official that he had no one in his firm
with experience in drug operations, the CIA man
contradicted him and named [a Rewald] employee who had
been a longtime CIA contract agent active in Southeast
Asia." The CIA disputed Anderson's column, but the
columnist never backed down. Rewald was convicted of
fraud and sentenced to an astonishing eighty years in
federal prison.)
When a police investigator asked Scott Weekly in 1996
about his relationship with the CIA, Weekly replied that it
really didn't matter what answer he gave. There was no way
the police could ever confirm it. "He also agreed that if he
was in the CIA, he wouldn't tell me anyway," the officer
wrote. In 1998, the CIA Inspector General reported it could
find no evidence that Weekly "had any relationship with the
CIA."
Another officer tried to check out Weekly's military
background by calling the Office of Veterans Affairs in Los
Angeles. According to his report, an odd thing happened:
"Scott Weekly's name was found in the database. The
person on the telephone calmly read Weekly's name to me
and suddenly exclaimed, 'Whoa!' He quickly informed me
that due to provisions of the Privacy Act, only the fact that
he was a veteran could be confirmed. No information about
length of service, branch, or MOS [Military Occupational
Specialty] could be released without a subpoena or the
consent of Weekly."
Notwithstanding Lister's claim to the Majors that "Mr.
Weekly knows what I'm doing," it is difficult to say with
certainty if Weekly knew of Lister's cocaine dealings with
Danilo Blandón. Weekly denies it. But there is no doubt that

===== PDF PAGE 530 =====
between 1982 and 1986, Scott Weekly was helping out on
the flip side of Blandón's criminal enterprise: the sale of
exotic weapons and communications gear, some of which
was being sold to Freeway Rick and his fellow crack
dealers in South Central Los Angeles. A U.S. Customs
agent, John Kellogg, testified in 1988 that he believed
Weekly was an arms merchant who "was involved in
international munitions deals."
"And how did you come to that belief?" Kellogg was
asked by a federal judge.
"Though his various contacts with me and his foreign
travels," Kellogg replied. "He would come back after
several months' absence and come into my office and say,
'I believe you need to know about this,' and then detail very
specific information concerning munitions dealers that were
under investigation by the Customs Service and others."
According to interviews Weekly did with ATF agents in
1987, he admitted "that he had been involved with the
Contras in the past, when Pastora was in power." A U.S.
Customs official told the ATF "that Weekly was acting at
the direction of Customs when he was involved with the
Contras."
Lister confirmed that he "often met with Scott Weekly
because Weekly was very knowledgeable in the area of
commercially available military related systems." He said
Weekly was "a dependable source of information as to
which systems were declassified and, hence, legal to sell."
In the final weeks of 1986, less than a month after Lister
identified "Mr. Weekly" to the sheriff's raid team as his CIA
contact, evidence surfaced suggesting that Lister's
description wasn't far off the mark.
At the time Lister made that claim, Scott Weekly was
participating in at least two covert operations involving the

===== PDF PAGE 531 =====
National Security Council and a special unit inside the U.S.
State Department that was working closely with Oliver
North and the CIA.
Both Weekly and Gritz have testified that in early 1986
they were asked to conduct training exercises for another
of the CIA's secret armies: the anti-Communist Afghan
resistance movement—the Mujahedeen. Before
undertaking that mission, they said, they sought and
obtained the approval of two State Department officials in
Washington: William R. Bode, a special assistant to the
undersecretary of state for security assistance, and Bode's
aide, army colonel Nestor Pino Marina.
Eugene Wheaton, a former air force security expert who
knows both men personally, believes Bode and Pino were
CIA agents working under State Department cover on the
Contra project with Oliver North. "That office. . .was CIA
through and through," says Wheaton, whose name shows
up repeatedly in Bode's daily agendas and Oliver North's
notebooks during 1985–86. There is some independent
evidence to support Wheaton's conclusions. In an interview
with Iran-Contra investigators, former CIA Central American
Task Force chief Alan Fiers Jr. admitted that he and North
in late 1985 discussed an unnamed "paramilitary covert
action program" involving Pino and Bode and a company
called Falcon Wings Inc. What that program involved is not
known; the rest of Fiers's interview was censored on
national security grounds.
Undersecretary of State William Schneider told the FBI in
1988 that Bode and Pino were responsible for Central
America and their jobs involved "keeping in touch with
DOD [Department of Defense] and other government
agencies to determine if U.S. assistance programs to the
area were working." One of those programs appears to

===== PDF PAGE 532 =====
have been the secret Contra maritime operations North
and CIA station chief Joseph Fernandez were running in
Costa Rica, using Kevlar speedboats and offshore shrimp
trawlers as motherships. As discussed in an earlier
chapter, those murky missions were being spearheaded by
two CIA-linked drug traffickers working with the Southern
Front Contras—Bay of Pigs veterans Felipe Vidal and
Dagoberto Nunez. In an interview with Iran-Contra
prosecutor Lawrence Walsh's office, Pino confirmed that
he and Bode met with North to discuss the purchase of the
speedboats. During that meeting, Pino said, North
unexpectedly announced that he could wind up behind bars.
"North did refer to going to jail," Pino confirmed, but he said
his "impression was that the phrase was common usage in
the military before an inspection."
Colonel Pino, another Bay of Pigs veteran, has a history
of involvement with the CIA and covert operations. In 1982
he became the U.S. Army's "action officer" on the civil war
in El Salvador. Pino was a close friend of former CIA agent
Felix Rodriguez, who was overseeing North's Contra
rcsupply operation at Ilopango air base in El Salvador at
the time. Rodriguez, in fact, says he first met Ollie North
through Bode and Pino. Like Rodriguez, Pino was close to
Salvadoran Air Force general Rafael Bustillo, who ran the
Ilopango base. Pino referred to Bustillo as "family," and the
Salvadoran general sometimes stayed at Pino's house in
Virginia while visiting Washington.
As for Bode, he was described by his boss,
Undersecretary Schneider, as "a deployable asset. . .who
was used on non-routine projects." Bode's desk calendars,
obtained from the National Archives, show frequent
meetings in 1985 and 1986 with North and CIA operative
Robert Owen, North's liaison to the Contras and the Cuban

===== PDF PAGE 533 =====
mercenaries working on the Southern Front.
Gritz testified that he approached Bode and Pino to
discuss the Afghan training program he and Weekly were
asked to conduct because "I've worked for intelligence
agencies and I wanted to make sure that we weren't doing
something that was illegal. . .Mr. Bode was enthusiastic, as
a matter of fact, I would call him excited. He said that not
only did he approve of the proposal but that he would
provide other Afghan groups, since there was a division of
about six or seven subgroups, that he would provide other
people for us to train also. Later, in further meetings, I did
provide him with a detailed training proposal. Initially I gave
him an outline for a training proposal of seventy-six days."
Gritz said Bode shortened the training schedule to thirty
days "and eliminated some of the classes that he felt were
too sensitive for the Mujahedeen at the time. It included
various secure communications [courses] that we had
planned to give."
In a 1987 interview, Bode confirmed that he had met with
Gritz about the training program and "gave him the names
of one or two people to talk to," but he denied he authorized
the operation. "Just the fact that we met and had talks didn't
authorize anything," Bode insisted. "The Afghan program is
a covert program, okay? All CIA, or perhaps a little bit of
Defense Department. The State Department does not get
involved in those things." (As anyone who has studied the
CIA can attest, the State Department has provided cover
for more CIA officers over the years than any other section
of government save the military.)
Bode's assistant, Nestor Pino, also denied that he had
officially authorized the missions, but said he was
"convinced that the effort(s) taken by Colonel Gritz to train
Afghan Freedom Fighters are in consonance with and

===== PDF PAGE 534 =====
complimentary of U.S. policy for Afghanistan and that
Colonel Gritz and Mr. Weekly saw it that way." Their
activities, Pino declared, "were inspired by a strong desire
to support the Afghan resistance against Soviet occupation
and by an even stronger desire to advance the interests of
the United States."
In federal court, Weekly and Gritz testified that the money
to pay for the Afghan training exercises came from
Stanford Technology, one of the companies fronting for
Oliver North's "Enterprise," the quasi-governmental arms
dealership at the heart of the Iran-Contra scandal. Stanford
Technology was used by North and his agents to launder
the profits of the Iranian missile sales. During the Iran-
Contra deposition of Stanford Technology's owner, Albert
Hakim, he admitted that approximately $900,000 from his
various front companies was paid out "for miscellaneous
projects at the request of Lt. Col. North."
In late 1986 Gritz and Weekly's training program—
conducted in the Nevada desert on land owned by the
federal government—was accidentally exposed by a law
student in Oklahoma City who was married to a policeman.
"She was sitting in her apartment one night when Weekly
and this cop show up with 200 pounds of C-4 plastic
explosives," recalled former federal prosecutor Stephen
Korotash, who handled the case. "They were looking to
store it somewhere. She happened to mention it to her
father and Dad called the ATF [Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco
and Firearms]." The ATF learned that Weekly had loaded
the C-4 aboard two commercial passenger flights to Las
Vegas and then left the country. An ATF report on the
Weekly investigation, found in the CIA's files during an
internal probe in 1997, "indicated that Weekly claimed he
had done this for CIA."

===== PDF PAGE 535 =====
ATF agents initially suspected that Weekly might be a
terrorist until they got a look at his long-distance telephone
records for September and October of 1986. Among other
things, they found calls to Colonel Pino at the State
Department; to William Logan, southwest regional director
of the U.S. Customs Service; to the National Security
Council; and to defense contractor United Technologies.
The agents broke the news to federal prosecutor
Korotash, who was not pleased. The storm over the Iran-
Contra scandal was then reaching a crescendo and the last
thing Korotash wanted was to be dragged into that
maelstrom. "My first thought was: 'Oh, great. Here I am
picking my nose in Oklahoma and now I've stumbled into a
Contra deal.' That's what I thought this was and I can
remember thinking, 'How in the hell did I get ahold of a case
like this?'"
No stranger to the workings of government, Korotash
bounced the Weekly investigation up the bureaucratic
ladder, and it kept right on bouncing, all the way to the top
of the Criminal Division of the U.S. Justice Department in
Washington. Records show that on December 2, 1986,
Assistant U.S. Attorney General William F. Weld was
briefed on the case. According to Weld's notes of the
briefing, Weekly was somehow connected to the U.S. State
Department and had made long-distance phone calls to a
Lieutenant Colonel Tom Harvey, who was on the staff of the
National Security Council. (Gritz has said Harvey was
supervising the POW hunt he and Weekly were on at the
time and provided them with White House and NSC
credentials. Harvey has denied that.)
Korotash's supervisor, Oklahoma City U.S. attorney
William Price, asked Weld, if he should "proceed with such
cases?" Weld told him to go ahead, and then asked one of

===== PDF PAGE 536 =====
his aides, Deputy Assistant Attorney General Mark M.
Richard, to look into the case.
Richard already had some background in this area.
Earlier that year he'd been given an award by the CIA for
"Protection of National Security during Criminal
Prosecutions." A CIA spokesman said Richard was
honored for "his outstanding work in the case against
Ronald Rewald," the Honolulu investment banker who
claims his investment firm funneled CIA money to covert
operations, including Weekly and Gritz's earliest POW
missions. Thanks to Richard's efforts, Rewald's ties to the
CIA were not permitted to surface publicly at his criminal
trial.
Richard called U.S. Attorney Bill Price on December 11,
1986, and was briefed on the investigation. Several months
later, Richard was grilled about that briefing in a deposition
taken by Iran-Contra committee lawyer Pamela Naughton.
According to a transcript of the deposition, Naughton
confronted Richard with two sheets of lined paper filled with
handwritten notes.
"Tell me what that is," Naughton said. "Is that your
handwriting, first of all?"
"I'd plead guilty to that," Richard cracked. "This is the gist
of the conversation I had with Mr. Price and his briefing of
me regarding an individual who had been arrested and his
possible involvement in some CIA/Contra-related
activities."
"Now, about a third of the way down—individual's name
was Weekly? Is that—am I reading that correctly?"
Naughton asked. "W-E-E-K-L-Y?"
"Yes."
"About a third of the way down it says—if I'm reading
correctly—'Weekly posts on tape that he's tied into CIA and

===== PDF PAGE 537 =====
Hasenfus. Said he reports to people reporting to Bush.'
What does that mean?"
"I don't know what the 'post' means, but apparently there
was a tape recording," Richard answered. "This is a matter
which had just arisen in the U.S. Attorney's office. I was
getting briefed. . .it's an individual who had been arrested
and is asserting, or there is a suggestion of, a relationship
to the CIA and Hasenfus and the exportation of explosives
to the countries." (At the time of Richard's conversation with
Bill Price, Weekly was actually about two weeks away from
being arrested; he was still in Burma with Bo Gritz on their
latest POW hunt. Price was apparently briefing Richard on
the tapes of intercontinental telephone conversations
Weekly was having with his police officer friend in
Oklahoma City. Who made the tapes and how the Justice
Department obtained them isn't clear.)
"And he's alleging or indicating to someone that he's
connected with the CIA and that he is reporting to people
who report to Bush?" Naughton asked.
"That's what he's asserting," Richard agreed.
"What is the current status, if you know?"
"I cannot—as far as I recall, it was referred to the—"
"Referred to the Independent Counsel?" Naughton
asked.
"To the IC," Richard confirmed. "And I just don't know the
status."
Because the case had been turned over to Lawrence
Walsh, the Iran-Contra committees didn't pursue the
Weekly matter further, Naughton said. Unfortunately, neither
did Walsh, because Walsh had nothing but the sketchiest
details about the Weekly case. The tapes on which Weekly
discusses the CIA, Hasenfus, and George Bush do not
appear to have been turned over, nor were Weekly's phone

===== PDF PAGE 538 =====
records made available to Walsh's office.
While no evidence has surfaced suggesting that State
Department officials Bode and Pino knew of Blandón's
criminal enterprises, records show that they were not
neophytes on the subject of the Contras and cocaine. At the
same time they were dealing with Scott Weekly, the two
men were trying desperately to get another CIA-linked
cocaine trafficker out of prison because of his past
assistance to the Contras.
The federal prisoner, Jose Bueso Rosa, had been
indicted in 1984 for his part in a bizarre scheme to
assassinate the president of Honduras, Roberto Suazo
Cordova, and stage a coup d'etat, using the proceeds of a
giant cocaine sale to finance it. President Suazo had drawn
Bueso Rosa's wrath by dumping Honduran Army chief
General Gustavo Álvarez, a fanatical anti-Communist who
was one of the fathers and chief supporters of the Contras.
Bueso Rosa, a Honduran general, had been one of
Álvarez's top aides, and the cocaine coup was intended to
restore Álvarez and his men to power.
Unfortunately for the plotters, the two American military
officers they hired to murder Suazo went to the FBI. In late
October 1984, a collection of Cubans and Honduran arms
merchants was arrested at a remote inland airstrip in
Florida with 764 pounds of cocaine, valued at between $10
million and $40 million wholesale. "The announcements at
the time of the arrests made by the Departments of State
and Justice quite properly categorized this case as a
triumph for the Administration's policy against terrorism and
against narcotics," former State Department official
Francis J. McNeil would later testify. But not everyone in the

===== PDF PAGE 539 =====
Reagan administration was happy about it. Bueso Rosa
was one of the CIA's main collaborators in Honduras on the
Contra project, working closely with the agency in setting up
Contra bases, supply lines, aircraft repairs, and a host of
other, still classified, activities.
In the summer of 1986 the Honduran's attorney flew to
Washington and met with Colonel Pino, who began a
vigorous lobbying campaign at State and Justice to turn
Bueso Rosa loose, even though he had been indicted for
racketeering, conspiracy, and attempted murder-for-hire.
"The colonel assert [ed] an American intelligence interest in
Bueso Rosa, in getting Bueso Rosa off," McNeil testified.
As Pino explained to Iran-Contra investigators, "General
Bueso Rosa. . .had information which he could use against
us, as he had been privy to a large amount of specific
information."
To get Washington's attention, Bueso Rosa's lawyers
subpoenaed Oliver North, CIA officer Duane "Dewey"
Clarridge, former U.S. ambassador to Honduras John D.
Negroponte, and former U.S. Army general Paul Gorman to
testify at the Honduran's racketeering trial as defense
witnesses. In several computer messages to NSC chief
John Poindexter in September 1986, North fretted that the
case could become a major headache for the
Administration. "The problem with the Bueso case is that
Bueso was the man whom Negroponte, Gorman, Clarridge
and I worked out arrangements [censored]," North wrote.
"Only Gorman, Clarridge and I were fully aware of all that
Bueso was doing on our behalf."
North's computer messages about Bueso Rosa are
revealing for another reason: they illustrate just how skewed
the Reagan administration's sense of justice had become
regarding its "War on Drugs." At the same time Reagan

===== PDF PAGE 540 =====
and Bush were whipping the American public into a frenzy
over street-corner crack dealers, North and other top
administration officials were livid that Bueso Rosa had
even been charged with a crime. "Justice is justifiably upset
that none of this info was made available to them prior to
indictment or before/during trial," North griped. "Clarridge
was totally unaware that CIA had responded to a Justice
query on the case with the terse comment that they 'had no
interest in the case.' Elliott [Abrams] was also somewhat
chagrined to learn that some at State had been urging
rigorous prosecution and sentencing." Bueso Rosa was
advised to "keep his mouth shut and everything would be
worked out," North wrote.
The general later agreed to drop the subpoenas and
pleaded guilty with the understanding that he would be
sentenced to a minimum security facility at Eglin Air Force
base in Florida, North wrote, "for a short period (days or
weeks) and then walk free." Justice Department official
Mark Richard, who met with North to discuss the case, said
he was told that Bueso Rosa "was going to go in from one
entrance and out the other entrance, you know, out the
rear." An all-star collection of U.S. government officials,
including Colonel Nestor Pino, Bill Bode, and the former
head of the DIA, appeared as character witnesses or sent
glowing letters to Bueso Rosa's judge, urging him to go
easy on the admitted racketeer. But since Bueso Rosa's
coconspirators had been hit with sentences of up to thirty
years, it was impossible to let the ringleader off scot-free.
He was given a five-year sentence and assigned to a
federal prison in Tallahassee, a much harsher environment
than the "country club" camp at Eglin he'd been promised.
In North's view, that only made things worse. "Our major
concern—Gorman, North, Clarridge—is that when Bueso

===== PDF PAGE 541 =====
Rosa finds out what is really happening to him, he will break
his longstanding silence about the Nic[araguan] Resistance
and other sensitive operations," North wrote to Poindexter.
"Gorman, North, Clarridge, Revell [an FBI official], [Steven]
Trott and [Elliott] Abrams will cabal quietly in the morning to
look at options: pardon, clemency, deportation, reduced
sentence. Objective is to keep Bueso from feeling like he
was lied to in legal process and start spilling the beans. Will
advise."
The next day, North told Poindexter there had been "a
good meeting this morning with all concerned." The Justice
Department had graciously agreed to transfer Bueso Rosa
to Eglin, work out a deal to reduce his sentence, and
buttonhole the federal judge to "explain. . .our equities in
this matter. Revell/Trott both believe this will result in
approval of the petition for probationary release and
deportation to Honduras. Discretely briefing Bueso and his
attorney on this whole process should alleviate concerns. .
.that Bueso will start singing songs that nobody wants to
hear," North advised. "Bottom line: all now seems headed
in the right direction." But Colonel Pino and the Defense
Intelligence Agency got a little too happy. A few days before
Bueso Rosa was to report to prison, State Department
official McNeil got a call from an upset justice Department
official, informing him that the DIA had scheduled a
luncheon honoring the would-be assassin in the Pentagon's
Executive Dining Room. McNeil, outraged by the news,
called a meeting between State, the Justice Department,
the DIA, and the CIA to get the invitation squelched. The
ceremony was eventually canceled, but McNeil said he was
warned by a superior that he was "looking for trouble" if he
kept sticking his nose into the Bueso Rosa affair. "It was
very nasty business," McNeil, a former U.S. ambassador to

===== PDF PAGE 542 =====
Costa Rica, would later testify. He told Congress he
suspected something sinister was behind the frantic
machinations of North and company to get the Honduran
out of the United States.
"I must tell you this is circumstantial, but it seems to me
that the circumstantial evidence is such that one has to
wonder if there is not a narcotics angle," McNeil testified.
"What was so embarrassing that at least eight senior
officers of the U.S. government would think it necessary to
get this man off?" In a deposition, Justice Department
official Steve Trott claimed he didn't know why he went
through such contortions for Bueso Rosa, other than that
North had told him about the possible release of "sensitive"
information.
And what information was that? "I never got into the
substance of what it was," Trott claimed. Whatever it was,
Bueso Rosa held his tongue, and after doing three years at
Eglin he was shipped back to Honduras. In a 1995
interview with the 
Baltimore Sun
, he gave a chilling insight
into the kinds of secrets he possessed: he disclosed that
the CIA had equipped and trained the Honduran army's
official death squad, the 316 Battalion, which was blamed
for the torture, disappearance, and murders of hundreds of
Hondurans in the 1980s.
According to court records, similar promises of leniency
were made to Scott Weekly to keep him quiet about his
involvement with Bode, Pino, and the "Enterprise." As in
Bueso Rosa's case, the efforts looks particularly unseemly,
given the fact that, at the time they were undertaken,
Weekly was under federal investigation in connection with
Danilo Blandón's cocaine ring—something that was known

===== PDF PAGE 543 =====
at the highest levels of the CIA, the Justice Department,
and the DIA.
On December 21, 1986, just two days after Independent
Counsel Lawrence Walsh was appointed to investigate the
burgeoning Iran-Contra scandal, Weekly got a call at his
home in San Diego and was asked to meet with federal
agents at a room in the downtown Holiday Inn, overlooking
the harbor. Weekly had just returned from his latest ROW
hunt with Bo Gritz, allegedly on behalf of the NSC, but he
discovered that the agents—accompanied by Oklahoma
City federal prosecutor Steve Korotash—didn't want to
discuss that. They wanted to know about the C-4 he'd
placed on the airliners before he departed for the Far East.
When Weekly explained that the C-4 had been safely
detonated in the Nevada desert, he said the prosecutor
offered him a deal: if he kept quiet and pleaded guilty to
illegally transporting the C-4 to Las Vegas, he-would be
released on unsupervised probation, and the case would
be closed. "One of the points specifically that we agreed on
was that this investigation would start and stop with me,
and that it would not affect other or involve other personnel,"
Weekly later testified. Prosecutor Korotash denied making
any such promises.
The next morning Weekly and Korotash flew to
Oklahoma City, where the prosecutor "began hurriedly
telling me all the answers I was to give to the officials. . .and
emphatically told [me] if things got out of hand he would
answer for me or direct my answers." Weekly said
Korotash advised him to "lie low and keep mum."
Weekly went before a federal judge that afternoon and,
without ever having spoken to a defense lawyer, tersely
pleaded guilty to interstate transportation of explosives.
Under Korotash's gentle questioning, he admitted to

===== PDF PAGE 544 =====
shipping plastic explosives on two commercial airliners to
Las Vegas but was never asked why. Korotash helpfully
pointed out that the passengers were never in danger and
asked that Weekly be released from custody without having
to post bail. Federal judge Ralph G. Thompson said it was
"not routine that people be released on bail in cases of this
kind," but he acquiesced. The hearing was over in a matter
of minutes and Weekly was soon on his way home with the
whole episode safely behind him. Or so he thought.
Then Bo Gritz began shooting his mouth off about the
CIA and drugs.
Following his last POW foray, the superpatriot had come
home radicalized. He and Weekly had trekked into the
mountains of northern Burma to visit an opium warlord
named Khun Sa, who commanded a tribal army estimated
at 40,000 men. Gritz has said their primary mission from
Colonel Harvey at the NSC was to check out a tip Vice
President George Bush had received, suggesting that the
warlord knew something about missing American
servicemen in Laos. (As with Gritz's earlier missions, the
U.S. government denies any involvement. However, no one
has explained why Gritz and Weekly were meeting and
speaking with an NSC official.)
After a three-day hike into the jungles, Gritz said, they
found Khun Sa and discovered he knew nothing about
American POWs. What he did know about, Gritz claimed,
was a CIA-run heroin trafficking network that had been
operating in the region for more than a decade, helping to
finance a secret CIA army of anti-Communist guerillas in
Laos. Gritz said Khun Sa, who controlled much of the raw
opium trade in the Golden Triangle, opened up his ledger
books and provided him with the names of the CIA officials
allegedly involved and dates of their meetings with him.

===== PDF PAGE 545 =====
Gritz and Weekly returned to the United States in mid-
December 1986 with videotapes of their talks with the
opium king, and Gritz said he immediately turned them over
to Colonel Harvey of the NSC. Gritz said Harvey told him to
"erase and forget" what he'd learned from the opium
trafficker because the information would "hurt the
government." Instead, Gritz put on his medals and his
fatigues and went public, charging that U.S. government
officials had been dealing heroin and that the Reagan
administration was trying to cover that fact up. He pointed
to Scott Weekly's recent arrest and conviction on the
explosives charges as "proof" of a high-level conspiracy to
silence and discredit them because of their awkward
discoveries.
While the national press largely ignored the flamboyant
veteran's strange tale, it received some wire service and
radio coverage, particularly in Oklahoma City. Weekly's
prosecutor, Steve Korotash, was driving to the supermarket
one Saturday morning when he heard Gritz come over his
car radio "claiming that I was retaliating against Scott
Weekly because of some information Gritz, had gotten from
Khun Sa," Korotash said. "I didn't know who the fuck Khun
Sa was. I didn't have a clue." Korotash said he laughed off
Gritz's charges as "idiotic."
But others didn't find Gritz quite so amusing. A month
later, federal agents raided his house in Sandy Valley,
Nevada, hauling away boxes of paperwork. Simultaneously,
Weekly began receiving pressure from prosecutors to
implicate Gritz in the illegal transportation of the C-4 to
Nevada, he said. Weekly refused to cooperate, arguing
that he'd made a deal not to finger anyone. "Weekly was
protecting the hell out of Bo Gritz," former U.S. attorney
Price confirmed in an interview. "I mean, that's what really

===== PDF PAGE 546 =====
pissed us off."
When Weekly's sentencing on the explosives case rolled
around in April 1987, Korotash filed a confidential
memorandum with the court, saying Weekly had refused to
take a polygraph test and failed to cooperate with the
government. A letter from the U.S. Customs Service
commending Weekly for his help in other investigations
was withdrawn at the last minute. Judge Wayne Alley told
Weekly that it appeared he was "simply trying to protect the
names of others. . .. That's your privilege but it comes at a
cost." Alley sentenced Weekly to five years in federal
prison, requiring him to serve a year before he could be
eligible for parole, and fined him $2,000. "I got my brains
fucked out," Weekly would later complain.
A month later, in May 1987, Gritz was indicted by a
federal grand jury in Nevada for misusing a passport during
his travels to Southeast Asia. Gritz admitted that he had
used a phony passport but claimed the government had
given it to him. Pointing out that Oliver North had committed
the same "crime" during his overseas travels and had
never been indicted for it, Gritz told UPI that the charges
were "intended to silence his accusations that the CIA and
Defense Department are involved in opium trafficking." Grit
and his attorney vowed to turn his trial into an expose of
government drug dealing, but things never got that far. The
charges were dismissed by a federal judge before trial.
After spending 14 months in prison, Scott Weekly was
ordered released after a hearing revealed that he had
indeed been working for the U.S. government at the time of
his offenses, and had also been working as a U.S.
Customs informant for many years. He was placed on
probation, with the unusual caveat that he report any future
contact "with any officer or employee of the Department of

===== PDF PAGE 547 =====
State, the Department of Defense, the Central Intelligence
Agency or any other intelligence agency of the United
States."
While the Justice Department pounced on Gritz and
Weekly for what seem to be trivial violations of federal law,
it showed no such zeal when it came to pursuing Danilo
Blandón and the South Central L.A. drug gang. That
investigation, though it involved massive amounts of
cocaine and millions of dollars in ill-gotten gains, couldn't
seem to generate any interest in the halls of justice.

===== PDF PAGE 548 =====
20

===== PDF PAGE 549 =====
"It is a sensitive matter"
W
hen all was said and done, the October 1986 L.A.
County Sheriff's raids were a mere irritant to the
Nicaraguans. Blandón had lost a thimbleful of dope. None
of his people were arrested, and he and Chepita were out
of jail in a matter of hours. "He laughed about it," Ross said.
"I thought it was some pretty bad shit, but he told me there
was nothing to worry about. Nobody'd found nothing.
Nothing was gonna change." Blandón and Ross continued
buying and selling millions of dollars worth of cocaine every
week, even as the FBI watched. Records show Blandón
was under periodic surveillance through the first half of
1987.
Former L.A. County deputy DA Susan Bryant-Deason,
now a Superior Court judge, told police in 1996 that she
met several times in the weeks following the raids with
Sergeant Ed Huffman of Majors II and federal agents in an
effort to keep the Blandón investigation alive. Bryant-
Deason, the supervising attorney on the Blandón ease, had
been "cross-designated" as a special assistant U.S.
attorney, which allowed her to prosecute certain federal
cases as well as state crimes. She said the agents "were
frustrated and wanted to do something but had insufficient
evidence."
Why three grams of cocaine and a confession were
insufficient to charge Blandón with a crime has never been
explained, particularly since the L.A. police were hauling
street dealers into court by the hundreds for possession of
lesser amounts.
Despite the overall failure of the raids and the departure
of the Majors, FBI agent Douglas Aukland and DEA agent

===== PDF PAGE 550 =====
Tom Schrettner kept plugging away. If they couldn't get their
respective agencies to help them investigate the
Nicaraguans' drug ring, they'd find someone who would. In
November, the agents approached the Los Angeles U.S.
Attorney's office and persuaded federal prosecutor
Crossan Andersen to take their case to the Organized
Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF), a special
Justice Department unit that puts together agents from a
variety of law enforcement entities to go after major drug
trafficking organizations. The prosecutor agreed to offer the
case to OCDETF, which was very selective about the
cases it adopted for prosecution. They had to be big. On
November 25, 1986, Andersen wrote to the IRS criminal
investigation division in Laguna Niguel, asking the IRS to
supply agents to help out on the case.
"As you know," Andersen wrote, "this is a narcotics
investigation involving FBI, DEA, and LASO units in
Riverside and Whittier, California. It is a sensitive matter
since it involves allegations of drug running in support of the
CONTRA movement in Nicaragua and wholly unconfirmed
allegations of CIA involvement."
"Sensitive" was hardly the word for it. It was white hot.
The same morning Andersen was dictating his letter to the
IRS, President Ronald Reagan and Attorney General
Edwin Meese were solemnly announcing to a throng of
reporters in Washington that millions of dollars from the
sale of missiles to the maniacal Iranian government had
been illegally diverted to the Contras by Lt. Col. Oliver
North. The Iran-Contra scandal was bursting open at the
seams and, suddenly, the strange papers found in
Blandón's and Lister's houses that summer suggesting
drugs-for-arms deals and unexplained U.S. Treasury
deposits to foreign bank accounts took on a new

===== PDF PAGE 551 =====
significance. Aukland was temporarily assigned to work on
"Operation Front Door," the FBI's code name for its Iran-
Contra probe, and ordered to look into any possible
connections between Lister and Oliver North's arms ring.
Aukland interviewed a retired Secret Service agent who
told him Lister had mentioned "selling arms to the Contras
and that he worked for an Iranian." The next day, Aukland
questioned Lister's realtor, who told of the ex-cop buying a
house last summer with two sacks full of cash. When the
realtor asked Lister where the money came from, Lister
had informed him that he ran a "CIA-approved" security
business and was raising money for the Contras, which
was also "CIA-approved." When Aukland finally got to
Lister, he asked him point-blank "if he was involved in
training of Contras." Lister, who stoutly denied knowing
anything about North, clammed up and "requested that an
unidentified representative of 'another agency' be present
before he would answer that question."
Despite those intriguing leads, the FBI office in Los
Angeles declared there was "no connection" between
Lister and the Iran-Contra scandal and precluded any
further investigation. The next month the FBI would learn
that Lister "had told an unidentified neighbor over drinks
that he worked for Oliver North and [Richard] Secord, and
had sent arms shipments to the Contras." That lead also
was not pursued.
While prosecutor Andersen and FBI agent Aukland were
preparing their application to the Organized Crime task
force, all hell began breaking loose down in Costa Rica.
The secretive CIA and Contra operations going on there
were suddenly international news and the little country
started crawling with American reporters looking for a
scoop. They found all kinds of evidence linking North, the

===== PDF PAGE 552 =====
White House, and the CIA to illegal Contra resupply
activities. Ilopango was exposed and North's operatives
hastily abandoned their airplanes, their barracks, and their
safe houses and fled the country. The Costa Rican
government began arresting Contras and Contra
supporters for violating Costa Rican neutrality.
In early December 1986, Costa Rica's biggest
newspaper, 
La Nacion
, published an extensive series on
Contra connections to drug trafficking there and one
installment focused squarely on Norwin Meneses,
describing him as a Contra supporter and financier who
was holed up in Costa Rica under some type of protection,
hiding from American drug agents.
The story sent the DFA office at the U.S. Embassy into a
tizzy. Their top-secret informant had just been outed as a
major Contra drug trafficker—and not a week had gone by
since the Iran-Contra scandal had exploded. If the Costa
Rican government, which was becoming increasingly
hostile to the Contras, started poking around, it wouldn't
take long to discover the drug kingpin's special relationship
with the U.S. Embassy. Something had to be done.
Meneses' handler, DFA agent Sandy Gonzalez,
frantically cabled the DFA office in Los Angeles, asking for
permission for Meneses to travel to the U.S. "as soon as
possible." The newspaper, Gonzalez complained, had said
Meneses "was being investigated by the Costa Rican
government" and the publicity and the specter of
deportation had Meneses scared. He was considering
going underground, Gonzalez warned, which meant the
"DFA would lose what appears to be one of the best
sources of information to walk into a DEA office in years."
On December 21, without waiting for DEA approval,
Meneses and his new partner, the longtime CIA agent

===== PDF PAGE 553 =====
"Roberto," left Costa Rica and flew to the United States.
Officially, they were on a mission for the Costa Rican DEA:
penetrate Blandón's organization and gather intelligence
about its activities, under the code-name "Operation
Perico." But it appears there were other factors behind the
DEA's sudden urge to insert Meneses and the CIA agent
into Blandón's organization: to avoid the embarrassment of
Meneses falling into the hands of the Costa Rican police
and, more importantly, to gather intelligence on just what
the impending federal task force investigation in L.A. could
expose if it delved too deeply into Blandón's drug ring.
Soon after the new year, a series of strange meetings
took place in Los Angeles between Blandón, Meneses, the
CIA agent "Roberto," and a top FDN official named Ivan
Torres. Torres, a brother of The Trees—Jacinto and Edgar
—was also Blandón's chief assistant for the L.A. cocaine
operations. Roberto later reported back to the DEA on
those meetings and his debriefing reports must have
chilled the CIA and DEA to the bone.
"Ivan Torres, a Colombian national, said that his
brothers, Jacinto and Edgar Torres, were distributing up to
1,000 kilograms of cocaine on a monthly basis in Los
Angeles," one of the reports state. "According to Torres,
Meneses and Blandón, Torres was the head of the West
Coast branch of the FDN, which was supplying the Contras
with weapons. Ivan Torres claims to be in contact with FBI
and CIA representatives as a result of his involvement with
the FDN. He claims to have been trained by the CIA in San
Bernardino in an area made to resemble Nicaraguan
terrain. He said the CIA wants to know about drug
trafficking but only for their own purposes and not
necessarily to assist law enforcement agencies.
"Torres told [Roberto] that CIA representatives are aware

===== PDF PAGE 554 =====
of his drug-related activities and that they don't mind. He
said they have gone so far as to encourage cocaine traffic
by members of the Contras because they know that it is a
good source of income. Some of this income has gone into
numbered accounts in Europe and Panama. . ."
The Majors' raids, Torres reported proudly, had not
interfered with their cocaine sales to "Los Angeles black
organizations." They had merely caused some
management changes. "Blandón was keeping a low profile
and may have turned over cocaine distribution to a black
group in South Los Angeles to Jacinto Torres," the DEA
report says, describing Blandón's sales to blacks as "half
his trade. . .Blandón apparently cleaned up all his stash
houses and dealt through intermediaries, if at all."
As for the informants who snitched them off to the DEA
and FBI, Blandón and Torres knew who they were, Roberto
reported: "These individuals would be killed sometime in
the future." Nine months later, one of the men Blandón
suspected, FDN member Carlos Rocha, was shot five
times in the groin and legs while sitting in a hotel room in
Guatemala but survived. Blandón denied any involvement.
What is most strange about these meetings between the
Contra traffickers and the CIA agent is the fact that FBI
agent Doug Aukland, who was leading the investigation,
was never told of them until afterwards. Under Aukland's
nose, the Costa Rican DEA office secretly brought
Aukland's prime suspect into the country, sent him inside a
drug ring the FBI agent had been investigating for months,
and sent him back to Costa Rica—all without informing
him. Aukland was staking out Blandón's auto dealership,
Guerra Auto Sales, at the time of the meetings and he
watched for eight straight days as an "unidentified male
Latin" left Blandón's car lot in Fontana every morning with

===== PDF PAGE 555 =====
FDN official Ivan Torres by his side and drove into L.A. Only
later was Aukland told that the mystery man was Norwin
Meneses.
"Aukland said that he was particularly angry that he did
not get a chance to debrief Meneses and had only last-
minute notice that he could speak to [Roberto]," the Justice
Department Inspector General said. Outraged, Aukland
shot a cable off to FBI headquarters and the San Francisco
FBI, telling them about Meneses's newfound love for the
DEA. In San Francisco, FBI agent Gordon Gibler read the
cable and was "surprised. . .upset that the DEA had not
shared this information with the FBI." A few days later, the
San Francisco FBI issued arrest warrants for both Roberto
and Meneses "because the FBI suspected them of
conducting drug deals in San Francisco," Roberto later
recalled. They quickly beat feet back to Costa Rica.
Other DEA offices also began wondering what the hell
their Costa Rican comrades were up to. The San
Francisco office angrily cabled Costa Rica complaining
that it had no idea "who was being targeted by Meneses
and [Roberto]" or what they were supposedly investigating.
An accompanying cable was sent to DEA headquarters in
Washington, inquiring "whether an indictment of Meneses
by the San Francisco FBI will result in national security
problems with other agencies."
It must have caused some concerns to someone
because once Meneses had completed his mission and
was safely back in his Costa Rican mansion, the drug lord
suddenly had a change of heart. He was done. He just
wasn't eut out to be an informant, he decided. As long as
the FBI was trying to indict him, Meneses decreed, he
would never go back to the United States and would never
testify against anyone.

===== PDF PAGE 556 =====
Furious that they had been duped, the FBI decided to
even things up. Agents Aukland, Don Hale, and Gordon
Gibler had put together enough evidence to indict Meneses
for running a continuing criminal enterprise, they believed, a
racketeering offense that carries a possible life term. That
would fix both his ass and the DEA's for good. Norwin's
informant days would be over and he'd never set foot on
U.S. soil again. In February, Aukland and San Francisco
FBI agent Gibler met with San Francisco U.S. Attorney Joe
Russioniello (of Frogman case fame) and presented him
with a list of reasons why Meneses needed to be indicted.
Their prosecution memo detailed his long history of drug
dealing and noted that there were three informants willing to
testify publicly, one of whom claimed Meneses was a gun
runner who may have worked for the CIA.
It didn't take a week for Russioniello's office to reject the
FBI agents' proposal. Meneses would not be prosecuted,
the agents were told, so long as the Blandón investigation
was still underway in Los Angeles. Russioniello's office had
made a deal with the U.S. Attorney in L.A. Once the L.A.
case was done, Meneses would then be required to plead
guilty to "a cocaine-related charge as part of his
cooperation agreement" and maybe even do a little time.
Until then, the agents were told, their case was officially on
the inactive list.
Thanks to recently released Justice Department records,
it now appears that there was no such "cooperation
agreement" between Meneses and the Justice
Department, that it was an invention to placate the FBI
agents after their racketeering case was rejected for
prosecution. Justice Department investigators could find no
record of any such deal and the two federal prosecutors
who were reported to have agreed to this scheme—

===== PDF PAGE 557 =====
Crossan Andersen and Eric Swenson—both specifically
denied that an agreement ever existed.
If no deal existed, then it means that the real reason for
not indicting Meneses in January 1987 was something else
entirely. More likely, it was fear of the political blow such an
indictment would have dealt the Contra program and the
Reagan Administration in their darkest hour. The fact that
the DEA was asking if Meneses' indictment would cause
"national security problems for other agencies" shows just
how wise the agency was to the potential ramifications of
the case. And given what else was going on in Washington
then, the DEA's nervousness was understandable. Iran-
Contra was becoming more scandalous every day and the
chances were increasing that the Contra drug issue was
going to be dragged out of the shadows and exposed to
the klieg lights of a headhunting media. An item in the
January 13, 1987 Washington Talk column of the 
New York
Times
, headlined "Drugs and the Contras," gives an idea
of just how horrifying official Washington found that
prospect.
"Some senators say that any official inquiry on this topic,
and how much if anything American officials knew about it,
at this time would create such an uproar that it could derail
the main thrusts of the Senate inquiry: to sort out the
Reagan Administration's secret arms sales to Iran and
diversion of profits to the Contras," the 
Times
 reported.
With the San Francisco FBI now out of the picture, it was
once again up to Riverside agents Aukland and Schrettner.
Though their investigation had been burned, undermined,
compromised, and backstabbed every step of the way,
they still thought they had a few tricks left. For instance, they
had Meneses' CIA sidekick, Roberto, who had already
successfully penetrated the drug ring once. If he was

===== PDF PAGE 558 =====
supposed to be working for the DEA, they wanted him back
on the job. In March 1987, Tom Schrettner called DEA
agent Gonzalez in Costa Rica and told him to send Roberto
back to California "to infiltrate the Blandón organization."
But Gonzalez had more bad news about his pair of
informants. Roberto wouldn't come to California without
Meneses and Meneses wouldn't come back as long as the
FBI was looking for him. Gonzalez told Schrettner he was
so exasperated with Meneses he'd already gotten rid of
him as an informant and would have no further contact,
despite having deemed him an extraordinarily productive
source only a few months earlier. Sorry, boys.
The agents' investigation sputtered along in this fashion
for several more months. In May, federal prosecutor
Crossan Andersen called Gonzalez in Costa Rica and told
him to get Mr. CIA to California so he could be questioned
by the agents. Gonzalez replied that he didn't think Roberto
would ever come to California but promised to pass along
a message. And by the way, Gonzalez added, he was
being transferred to Bolivia and someone else was going
to be handling the case from now on.
Only after months of pressure from DEA headquarters
did Roberto finally agree to come to Los Angeles to meet
with Schrettner and Aukland. According to Aukland, the
operative "quickly made it clear that he would not testify."
He was "still willing to make introductions" but that was it.
He was also tightlipped about anything else he'd heard of
Blandón's operation and "did not appreciably add to the
information he had already given." He did point out that the
Majors had missed $850,000 in cash Blandón had hidden
in a safe in the bottom of his swimming pool. And he said
FDN official Ivan Torres was bragging that the FBI was
keeping him fully informed "of any police investigations

===== PDF PAGE 559 =====
against Blandón and himself."
A few days after those dispiriting debriefings, on July 17,
1987, Crossan Andersen pulled the plug on the OCDETF
investigation. It had lasted less than seven months and had
accomplished nothing—except to provide a cover for
Meneses and his CIA associate to visit the U.S. and create
suspicions that they were dealing dope. Even though the
FBI had shelved a promising case against Meneses in San
Francisco to ensure his cooperation in this one, the drug
lord had proven virtually worthless.
Aukland lambasted the DEA in his case closing
memorandum and in later interviews with Justice
Department inspectors. "This case may have been viable
with the assistance of DEA," Aukland wrote on September
16, 1987. "However, without that assistance, further efforts
will not be worthwhile." Aukland was so frustrated with the
case, he told the Justice Department, "he was glad to get
rid of it. . .he was not getting sufficient help from the FBI in
Los Angeles, Miami, or elsewhere with the case. . .he did
not think he was getting cooperation from the DEA in Costa
Rica."
Aukland packed up his files on Blandón and shipped
them to the Miami FBI office in the vain hope that an agent
there might be assigned to check up on the drug dealer the
next time he blew through town. No one bothered. "We
found no FBI records indicating that the Miami FBI office
conducted any additional investigation of Blandón," the
Justice Department Inspector General wrote. But once the
case was officially shelved Norwin Meneses miraculously
reappeared and, even more miraculously, the DFA hired
him back and began issuing him visas that allowed him to
travel in and out of the U.S. at will.
It was all over. At the height of the American public's

===== PDF PAGE 560 =====
outrage over the Iran-Contra scandal, a criminal
investigation involving Contra cocaine sales in Los Angeles
was dropped by the Justice Department, and a lid of
secrecy was clamped on the case, one which would not
come off for another ten years. In 1996, when the author
began looking into the 1986 raids, sheriff's department
officials would initially deny that they had ever occurred.
If the Blandón investigation produced anything useful for the
L.A. police, it was the knowledge that Freeway Rick Ross
was the Man in South Central. In order to make a dent in
the crack trade there, they were going to have to shut him
down. "Back then Ricky Ross was a major dealer and he
was affecting South Central L.A. He was supplying most of
the dope in that region," said Sergeant Robert Sobel, the
supervisor of the Majors I squad. "We were hearing from
informants about murders and dealing cocaine directly with
the Colombians and all kinds of bad things happening in
L.A."
Deputy LAPD chief Glenn A. Levant felt that it was
"abundantly clear that Ross was a vital link between major
drug suppliers and lower level distributors and dealers."
On January 12, 1987, the sheriff's department and the
LAPD formally joined forces, creating the Freeway Rick
Task Force. It was one of the few times in the history of L.A.
law enforcement that a single man had been the target of a
multi-jurisdictional police squad. Prevented from waging
war on Blandón, the police lowered their sights and trained
them on his best customer.
"Ricky Ross is a Seven Four Hoover Crip whose
success amongst Black gang members is well known," the
task force's organizational report stated. "He has

===== PDF PAGE 561 =====
developed a large organization which handles weapons
sales, multi-kilo cocaine shipments, and business
enterprises as a result of surplus cash. Investments are
known to involve real estate, commercial and residential."
Though Ross had made a concerted effort to keep a low
profile—tooling around town in a Ford station wagon with
fake wood paneling, for example—by 1986–87 he'd
become too successful for his own good. One day, he and
Ollie Newell sat down and counted up the money they had
stashed in their apartment. It took most of the afternoon, but
by the time they were finished, Ross said, they were
looking at $2.8 million "sitting on the floor, wrapped up in
rubber bands." And that was the haul from just one house.
They had cash squirreled away in apartments all over Los
Angeles. "All of his locations had these big, huge solid
steel floor safes," said Sergeant Sobel. "We had to call a
locksmith to get him to drill the things. It took a long time to
get in."
Ross could no longer hide his fortune, and after a while,
he no longer cared to. When he was coming up, he said, "I
was like this mysterious guy that everybody heard about but
nobody knew." Now he began acting like another man he'd
seen and admired in the movies—the Godfather—doling
out favors, buying friendship, buying respect. (One L.A.
television station would later run a special report entitled
Ricky Ross, Gang Godfather
.)
"He's become quite a heavyweight," LAPD captain
Sandy Wasson told UPI. "He's sort of a local hero in the
same way the drug cartel leaders are. He employs people.
He spends a lot of money in the area and he owns a lot of
property either through himself or through his family."
One of Ross's lieutenants, Cornell Ward, later tried to
explain it to ABC News by saying: "He was a 
good
 bad

===== PDF PAGE 562 =====
guy."
"And the whole community saw him that way?"
correspondent Forrest Sawyer asked.
"Exactly."
"God, that's hard to believe," Sawyer sputtered.
"It's easy," Ward assured him. "All you have to do is just
go through the neighborhood and see." So Sawyer did,
interviewing people who described Ross as a "well-liked
person in the area." They told of the crack king buying new
hoops and backboards for the neighborhood parks, field
lights, uniforms for local teams. He bought turntables and
sound equipment for struggling rap artists, and supplied the
eggs for the neighborhood Easter egg hunt. He paid for
new pews and an air conditioner for his mother's South
Central church and sponsored a semipro football team. Any
panhandler on the street would walk away with a wad of
bills if he was lucky enough to bump into Freeway Rick.
"Everybody likes him, man, because he helps, he helps a
lot of people," one South Central resident told the ABC
News crew. "And the brother ain't really done nothing. It's
just that he sold dope."
James Galipeau, a veteran probation officer in South
Central, told the 
L.A. Times
 that Ross "was more like a
Robin Hood-type guy. You never heard of him getting high
or drinking or beating women or dealing dope to kids. The
guy really had a reputation for helping people out and giving
money back to the community." That popular opinion, along
with his wealth and success, made Ross an ideal target for
the L.A. law's first concerted attack on the crack suppliers
of South Central. According to task force records, the
police believed that cutting Ricky Ross down to size would
not only be a propaganda victory for law enforcement but
would "send a message to up and coming gang members

===== PDF PAGE 563 =====
that success is not guaranteed at any level."
"To successfully conclude an investigation aimed at
Ricky Ross and his associates will be the genesis of future
efforts directed at mid-level drug suppliers," the task force's
initial report stated. "Success will send notice to others,
and there are, that they are vulnerable and law enforcement
can and will escalate the enforcement effort."
The cops estimated they would need sixty days "to
infiltrate and conclude enforcement efforts to bring Ross's
empire to a semi- or total conclusion." The sheriff's
department assigned five narcotics detectives, and the
LAPD contributed four, all of whom were "selected for their
respective talents including knowledge of gangs and
narcotics expertise."
Because Majors I had been sniffing around Ross since
mid-1986, its supervisor, Sergeant Robert Sobel, was put
in charge of the Freeway Rick Task Force. Sobel, a short,
hard-charging narcotics detective, was nicknamed "El
Diablo" by his men because of his fierce demeanor and
penchant for working his detectives hard.
"He kind of fancied himself as a tough guy. Some guys,
when they get a nickname, they say, 'Don't call me that.' But
he kind of liked that one," said one of his former
subordinates. "He'd stay out two or three days in the field. If
he told you to be there at seven in the morning, he'd be
there at six."
In keeping with Sobel's personal motto—"March or
Die"—all nine task force detectives were put on full cash
overtime, so they could keep up twenty-four-hour
surveillances and soften the blow by earning extra spending
money. "A great many man hours are anticipated by the
detectives," a January 1987 LAPD report said. "The overall
investigation will require extended hours of work involving

===== PDF PAGE 564 =====
standard investigative techniques and surveillance of the
primary suspect and associates."
For task force detective Steve Polak, who had been
working the streets of South Central since the dawn of the
crack era, nailing Ricky Ross became his personal mission
in life. He made no bones about his feelings toward the
young dealer: He hated him.
"What he did, he poisoned tens of thousands of people.
He overdosed them. He killed them. There are a lot of
crack babies out there now because of him," said Polak,
who holds Ross personally responsible for starting the L.A.
crack plague.
"Yeah, I could say he caused it. . .. There's no telling how
many tens of thousands of people he touched. And not just
in California, but like I said, it spread throughout the entire
United States what he did with his organization. So he's
responsible. He's responsible for a major cancer that still
hasn't stopped spreading, even here in Los Angeles."
With nine detectives assigned to look after him, Freeway
Rick started feeling the heat very soon. "When the task
force was finally formed, we just dedicated seven days a
week on him," Polak said proudly. "And we just dogged
him until he couldn't take it anymore." That was putting it
mildly. On January 21, 1987, Polak and his men hit the
Freeway Motor Inn like a tornado. "The entire motel [all
rooms] were searched," a task force report stated. "In room
#5 currency and paperwork were seized in Ricky Ross's
name, 31 grams of rock cocaine, $6,819 and a
sophisticated 800 Mhz hand-held repeater radio was
discovered. Investigation disclosed Ricky Ross had
purchased six of these radios for approximately $10,000 in
cash."
They raided Ross's mother's house on West Eighty-

===== PDF PAGE 565 =====
seventh Place the same day, finding "a stolen 9mm Uzi and
two point blank bullet proof vests." The search on Annie
Ross's house sent Rick into a tirade. He called during the
raid and had it out with Polak. "Going after my mom, that
was the kind of shit they was doing. Polak even went to
court to get her day-care license taken away. Can you
believe it?" Ross grumped. A week later, as Annie Ross
and a minister friend arrived at the airport to catch a plane
to Texas, the task force pulled them into a trailer, searched
their luggage and their car, fired questions at them, and
held them long enough so that they missed their flight. Then
they let them go.
As the weeks went on, it got worse. Three task force
detectives searched Ollie Newell's apartment and gave
Newell a vicious beating, punching and kicking him and
"smothering him with a plastic bag," court records state.
Newell's friend, Robert Robertson, also got a beating and
had $30,000 taken from him. "They would go raid my rental
properties and break the furniture, kick holes in the walls
and knock the windows out," Ross complained. "And then
these renters would be mad at me, you know, and stop
paying their rent."
Ross's attorney, Alan Fenster, started filing formal
complaints with the department on behalf of Ross and his
friends, accusing the officers of beatings, thefts, property
destruction, and false arrests. Sobel and his men fired
back with a search warrant for Fenster's financial records,
accusing him of being a money launderer and cocaine
fiend. Fenster's complaints were perfunctorily investigated
by the sheriff's internal affairs branch and closed with no
findings of wrongdoing. His complaints to the Justice
Department's civil rights division were similarly dismissed.
By the end of January the task force had served fifteen

===== PDF PAGE 566 =====
search warrants, arrested five people connected with
Ross's organization, and seized nearly eight pounds of
cocaine worth an estimated $1.3 million on the street,
$63,122 in cash, and twenty guns. They also seized enough
paperwork and telephone records to give them an inkling of
just how vast Ross's cocaine distribution system was. "The
investigation has expanded to include other co-
conspirators and demonstrated that Ricky Ross is
resourceful, has elaborate communications and is well
organized," a task force weekly activity report stated.
Sobel called Ross's enterprise "a cartel. . .it's a major
cocaine dealing organization that stretches from California
to Texas and Cincinnati, Ohio. We hit one place that was a
lab, a full-on laboratory to make rock cocaine, just 30-gallon
garbage cans full of cocaine. We seized like 28 pounds of
finished product there."
Despite Danilo Blandón's reassurance to Ross that nothing
would change, the Nicaraguan had already made up his
mind to get out of Los Angeles. The raids on his home and
other locations had blown his cover, and now his best
customer was under siege. In the aftermath of the raids,
Blandón's wife Chepita had begun to show signs of a
nervous breakdown. "When I went to Miami to visit my
family, the doctor told me. My wife was sick from the
nerves. . .. The doctor called me and told me I have to
change from L.A. 'If you want to have a wife. . .change from
that place, [or] your wife will be in a psychiatric hospital.'"
There were business considerations as well. Blandón's
attorney, Bradley Brunon, said Blandón's used car
business had been extremely successful and had enjoyed
"widespread patronage from the Latin community." But the

===== PDF PAGE 567 =====
raids "engendered widespread publicity in that small
community and Mr. Blandón was practically out of
business." After getting word in December 1986 that no
criminal charges would result, he quietly began closing up
shop, selling his used car lot, his restaurants, putting his
house up for sale, collecting his debts, and sending
Chepita and the girls ahead to Miami to stay with her uncle,
Orlando Murillo, while he tied up loose ends. By the time he
was ready to go, he was packing $1.6 million in cash and a
whole new attitude.
"I was prepared to change my life," he testified. But that
didn't mean letting a perfectly good cocaine ring go to
waste. There was still quite a bit of money left for his
countrymen to wring out of the streets of South Central. "I
handed it to the Nicaraguans," Blandón said, referring to
his drug enterprise. "I introduced my customers to them and
they continued doing the business."
"Using your old contacts?"
"Yes, and my supplier and my buyers."
In other words, despite the fact that the LAPD, L.A.
Sheriff's Department, FBI, DEA, CIA, DIA, and IRS were
now fully aware of their cocaine ring, the Nicaraguans kept
right on dealing. The only thing that changed was the man
on top—and even that was not much of a difference.
Blandón's successors were two of Norwin Meneses's
cocaine-dealing colleagues, Roger Sandino Martínez,
known as "Chocoyo," and Jose "Chinito" Gonzalez.
"Roger Sandino was one of these guys from the old
days, the old Contra connection," Blandón's lawyer, Bradley
Brunon, said. "He was an Original Gangster Contra." He
was also a veteran drug trafficker who seemed to enjoy the
same kind of protection as Blandón. DEA records show
that Sandino was arrested in October 1980 in Hialeah,

===== PDF PAGE 568 =====
Florida, in possession of 50,000 Quaalude tablets. He
pleaded guilty to conspiracy and was sentenced to thirty
months in federal prison. Despite his conviction and the
fact that he was in the U.S. illegally at the time of his arrest,
Sandino was never deported, and he continued dealing
drugs. In 1984 he set up an import-export business in
Miami with the help of a Coral Gables attorney who was in
business with several of Blandón's FDN associates,
including former National Guard major general Gustavo "El
Tigre" Medina and businessman Donald Barrios.
Sandino was busted again in April 1986, this time as
part of the biggest cocaine case on the Atlantic Coast.
DEA agents in Norfolk, Virginia, charged him and fourteen
other people—including the son-in-law of Bolivian cocaine
kingpin Roberto Suarez-Gómez—with conspiracy to import
700 pounds of cocaine worth an estimated $158 million.
The dope wasn't theirs, however. It belonged to the DEA,
which brought it into the United States from Bolivia to use
as bait in a reverse sting, a scheme in which the police
pose as cocaine sellers in order to seize money from drug
buyers. In this case, they seized $1.3 million from Sandino
and his associates.
The DEA has censored many of its records dealing with
Roger Sandino, citing privacy reasons, so his role in the
Bolivian drug operation isn't known. What is clear is that he
was never brought to trial. Though arrested, Sandino
somehow managed to wriggle out of custody, and the DEA
issued a fugitive warrant for his capture. (When L.A.
detective Tom Gordon ran Sandino's name through
NADDIS several months later, however, there was no
mention in his file of the Virginia indictment or the fugitive
warrant.)
Months after fleeing Virginia, Sandino showed up in Los

===== PDF PAGE 569 =====
Angeles, just in time to take over the South Central drug
ring from the departing Danilo Blandón. After Blandón
moved, Ross said, he would call him in Miami and place
his orders, and Roger Sandino's partner, Jose Gonzalez,
would handle the pickups and deliveries. Blandón
confirmed that he continued working with the Nicaraguan
operation in L.A., solving problems, settling disputes, and
collecting commissions from the drug sales. "They used to
be calling me all the time if they have some problem,"
Blandón said. "I was the middleman, you see, like—I was
making something. I was making something. . .then I had to
call Rick to tell him, 'Hey, what's going on?'"
By then, Ross said, the cocaine business was losing
some of its allure. His friend and mentor was three
thousand miles away. He owned about $5 million worth of
real estate and still had more money than he could spend.
And for the first time, Ross said, he began having second
thoughts about just how mellow his product really was. His
current girlfriend, Mary Louise Bronner, the mother of two of
his five children, was now a crack addict, thanks to him.
The chickens were starting to come home.
"At first, I had never saw anybody addicted to cocaine. It
took a while before—before it started to affect anybody that
we dealt with. I mean nobody—at first, it was like everybody
that was using cocaine drove big ears and, you know,
stayed in the Baldwin Hills area and then it started to
change and we started to see the effects that it was
having." Ross said the first twinges of conscience came
when Jocelyn Clements, a longtime friend and one of his
earliest customers, turned into a raging crackhead. "I found
out that she was taking all her welfare money and her food
stamps and stuff and spending it on cocaine," he said.
But there were other reasons for his restiveness. By early

===== PDF PAGE 570 =====
1987 the L.A. crack market had become saturated, so
much so that many gang members were hitting the road to
find greener pastures and emptier street corners. Crips
and Bloods were bumping into each other in cities across
the United States. "Everywhere you go, you know what I'm
saying, anywhere you go, you're gonna see some people
from L.A.," one Crip dealer told California Department of
Justice researchers in 1988. "If they got, you know, a dope
house out there or a dope street out there. . .you'll run into
somebody on that street from L.A."
Said another: "Out of town where nobody else ain't at. .
.that's where the money's being made because there's too
much competition in Los Angeles. It's got too many dope
dealers in Los Angeles competing against each other. So
they take it out of town. The profits are better. Here you can
sell an ounce for $600. Over there you can sell it for
$1,500." Cocaine prices in L.A. had been dropping through
the floor because so much of it was coming in. Kilos that
had once cost Ross $50,000 were now going for $12,000,
which the 
L.A. Times
 blamed partly on Ross, since he was
buying in such volume.
By 1986–87, Ross said, a good chunk of his business
consisted of exporting the drug to higher-priced areas,
where he was able to undercut the local yokels by
thousands of dollars a key. He'd made connections in
Bakersfield, Fresno, St. Louis, Texas, and Alabama. Police
in St. Louis said cocaine prices there went into a free fall
once the Crips and Bloods arrived. "Gang members have
flooded the market here with excellent cocaine at good
prices. The local dealers have to succumb to these
people," one detective complained to the 
St. Louis Post-
Dispatch
.
The L.A. market was also getting tougher. Ross was no

===== PDF PAGE 571 =====
longer the only crack dealer in South Central with
Colombian connections. He had begun facing competition
from Brian "Waterhead Bo" Bennett, a fast-rising young
dealer who'd hooked up with a Colombian named Antonio
Villabona in 1985 and started moving large amounts of
cocaine. But Bennett was sloppy and obvious, carrying
brown paper bags stuffed with cash around in public. Within
a year the police were onto him and he was arrested in
1988. L.A. law enforcement officials held a press
conference to announce that, for the first time, they had
proof that the black gangs had made direct connections
with the Colombian cartels.
"What they didn't realize," observed 
L.A. Times
 reporter
Jesse Katz, "was that Ricky had hit that level about six
years earlier."
Danilo's decision to move back east made Ross think. If
Danilo felt it was time to hang it up, maybe it was. He was
usually right about things like that. Ross started scaling
back his drug sales, gradually turning over the business to
his partner, Ollie Newell, and their lieutenants, Mike Smith
and Cornell Ward. He began making plans for an early
retirement.
"I had slowed down on my drug activity tremendously,"
Ross said. "I might have been selling once a week to
maybe one or two people. They would call me and say that
they needed something, and I would call Mr. Blandón and
get it and give it to them. So it was hard for the police to
catch me doing something because I was barely doing
anything. You know, they thought I was still going full bore,
but I wasn't."
The Freeway Rick Task Force wasn't slowing down a bit,
though. Every week another batch of search warrants would
be served, another pile of cash would be seized, and

===== PDF PAGE 572 =====
another one of Ross's friends or relatives would get
roughed up or hauled off to jail. "We had some very good
informants that were very close to Ricky Ross and he knew
it. Ricky Ross was getting upset," Sobel said.
In their rush to put Ross out of business, though, the
detectives' tactics became increasingly questionable.
According to federal court records, the task force
ransacked an apartment owned by one of Ross's girlfriends
in February 1987, picked up a doll belonging to his
daughter, and then "as a threat to Ricky Ross, they plunged
a knife into the doll's head, pinning it to a wall, along with a
note: 'This is you, Ricky.'"
Sergeant Sobel said that "as time went on it became
common knowledge among the entire "Risk force that
[LAPD detective] Polak was carrying around a kilo of dope
in the tire well of his vehicle. Polak would he bragging about
a present for Ricky Ross when they ran into him. There
were constant jokes made about the dope they had ready
[to plant on] Ricky Ross when they found him."
One evening in mid-April 1987, Ross, Newell, and
Cornell Ward closed up Rick's auto parts store on Western
Avenue, the Big Palace of Wheels, and piled into the crack
king's brand-new Ford station wagon, intending to cruise
around for a while. "Hooked in the rearview mirror and I
saw some cars coming up behind me with no lights on and
first I thought it was somebody maybe trying to rob us or
something. We didn't know. So I started speeding in the car
and then a red light caught me and a car pulled up right up
on the side of me and the guy let his window down."
Newell recognized the driver. It was task force detective
Sergeant Robert Tolmaire, a black officer who was
regarded by Ross's crew as the most dangerous and
violent detective on the whole squad. "He stuck this gun out

===== PDF PAGE 573 =====
the window, pointing it at the ear," Ross said. Newell turned
to Ross and asked what he intended to do. Ross said he
didn't know.
"Well," Newell replied calmly, "you know they're going to
kill you. They already said they're going to kill you."
Ross stomped on the gas and roared through the traffic
light, with the detectives in hot pursuit. He raced down a
side street and decided to make a run for it. The station
wagon swerved violently into a driveway and Ross leaped
out, sprinting through a yard and hopping a fence.
"Behind me, I could hear them shooting," Ross said. The
shots missed him, and he managed to hitch a ride on a
passing bus and escape.
Newell and Ward weren't so lucky. They said they were
handcuffed and tossed into the back of a police car, and
the deputies took turns beating on them with metal
flashlights and leather saps. Ward was also smacked with
a shotgun.
Then, according to court records, LAPD detective Steve
Polak drove up, opened the trunk of his car, and "retrieved
a kilo of cocaine in a black gym bag. Polak then displayed
the bag to the others present, claiming that Ross had
dropped the bag as he ran." Since shots had been fired
that had to be explained, the deputies also agreed to
accuse Ross of shooting at them.
Ross was charged with a variety of crimes—four counts
of conspiracy, three counts of transporting controlled
substances, one count of assault with a deadly weapon
upon a police officer—and was declared a fugitive from
justice. Assuming that every cop in L.A. would be gunning
for him as a result of the assault charge, Ross went into
hiding, lying low for three weeks as the task force scoured
the city, tearing through his friends' houses on an all-out

===== PDF PAGE 574 =====
manhunt. On May 5, 1987, he decided things had gone far
enough.
"I felt that it went past just. . .duty," Ross explained in
court testimony. "My whole thing, I felt, became personal. It
wasn't like just Joe the drug dealer. It had become more of
a personal kind of vendetta with them and me. I didn't have
no vendetta with them because if they arrested me, that
was their job, but it seemed like they had a vendetta with
me."
Ross drove down to the sheriff's office and turned himself
in. He was locked up in the L.A. County Jail on a $1 million
bond. The LAPD issued a press release, announcing the
demise of Ross's "multi-million dollar mid-level rock
cocaine organization. . .estimated [to have] netted over $12
million during the first four months of 1987." The body count
was impressive indeed: sixty-one search warrants; thirty-
nine arrests, including that of the ringleader; and $13.3
million in cocaine seized, along with $240,000 in cash and
sixty-two firearms, including "revolvers, semi-automatic
pistols, shotguns, Uzi's, Mac-10's, a fully automatic Mac-11
machine gun" as well as "five bulletproof vests."
The investigation had also "developed comprehensive
intelligence information regarding street gang involvement
in rock cocaine trafficking throughout the Western United
States," Deputy LAPD chief Levant wrote, and he called
the Freeway Rick Task Force "a model for other
jurisdictions to follow to attack mid-level cocaine trafficking
in California."
But the celebrations were destined to be short.
Apparently unable to resist the temptation, several
members of the Freeway Rick Task Force dropped by the
jail to inspect their prize. They started goading Ross about
Alan Fenster, telling him that his coke-snorting lawyer had

===== PDF PAGE 575 =====
abandoned him and was leaving him to hang. His only
hope, they told him, was to confess and go to work for them
because if he didn't, he was going to be in jail for a very,
very long time. Fenster was never going to get him out of
this jam.
They'd set him up, the detectives crowed, and they'd set
him up good. He was going down for the count because
they had their stories worked out, and the case was tight as
a virgin. "The discussion was tape recorded," U.S. Justice
Department records state. "They discussed their frame-up
of Ross and unsuccessfully tried to turn Ross against his
Colombian cocaine source. Ultimately, Ross filed a motion
to dismiss based on the encounter and the existence of the
tape recording was revealed at the hearing. The judge
insisted that the tape be produced."
Before it was turned over, amateurish attempts were
made to doctor it. A forensic expert concluded that eleven
erasures had been made in an effort to obliterate the
detectives' accusations against Fenster and their
discussions of a beating administered to Ross's brother,
David.
After hearing the tape, the judge threw the charges out of
court.
Freeway Rick was free once again.
In one month, he'd dodged bullets twice—both lead and
legal—and he didn't intend to give the task force a third
shot at him. Someone else could be the crack king from
now on.

===== PDF PAGE 576 =====
21

===== PDF PAGE 577 =====
"I could go anywhere in the world and
sell dope"
R
icky Ross moved as far away from Los Angeles as he
could get, taking Mary Bronner and their children to
Cincinnati, Ohio. It was where Bronner grew up; Ross had
accompanied her home once as she attempted to kick her
crack habit, and he had taken to the tidy conservative
midwestern city on the banks of the Ohio River. The
neighborhoods were green and quiet, lined with big leafy
trees. The homes were spacious, set on seemingly endless
yards, not stacked on top of each other like the dusty
matchboxes in Los Angeles.
"It was real cool," Ross said. He would use his time in
Cincinnati "to back away from the game, just mellow out. I
thought I'd get away from it, you know." Though most of his
assets were tied up in L.A. real estate, he'd taken
$300,000 in cash with him. In a city where a palatial home
could be had for a third of that, it was plenty of money. His
businesses and rental properties in L.A. were still
producing revenue. "Financially," Ross said, "I was set."
He moved to a townhouse on the east side of Hamilton
County, in a comfortable Republican suburb of rolling hills
and minivans. "We was trying to get away from drug life—
her using and me dealing," Ross explained. "Basically, I
just wanted to be a small-time person, you know, with a
nice house, with a nice car. I wanted kids. I wanted my kids
to play tennis. I wanted my kids to win Wimbledon. I wanted
them to go to college."
But Ross had never been able to sit back and take things
easy. He had to be in motion, working some kind of deal,
so he indulged himself in his other great obsession: real

===== PDF PAGE 578 =====
estate. He liked to refer to himself half-jokingly as a
property junkie. "I was buying property, old houses,
rebuilding them. . .I had become pretty knowledgeable on
how to rebuild houses." It was undramatic but satisfying
work, and gradually L.A. began to seem farther than 2,400
miles away. Ricky Ross was twenty-seven years old, and
as the weeks stretched into months he began to feel at
ease. Years later he would look back on that period
wistfully. "Hook at myself now and say, 'Man, you had it
made.'"
He would get occasional calls from Danilo in Miami, and
they'd catch up. "We stayed on a relationship. You know,
we talked and he was still dealing with Ollie. He didn't quit.
When I quit, Ollie didn't stop." But Ross said the
Nicaraguan didn't like dealing with Newell, whom he
referred to as "Big Charlie."
"Basically, he would tell me: 'Why'd you quit? I need you.
You know Big Charlie don't take care of the business like
you do. . .. He was saying, basically, that Charlie didn't pay
him like he was supposed to and, you know, he was slow,
stuff like that. He said that I took care of my business the
way I was supposed to, and I did what I told him I was going
to do."
Blandón denied he was personally selling drugs at that
time but admitted that he was overseeing the drug sales of
his successors. "I knew everything," he said. Because of
the way the cocaine business worked, he'd had to vouch for
Roger Sandino and Jose Gonzalez, and that meant
mediating the disputes and solving the problems that arose
between Ross's crew, the Nicaraguans, and their
Colombian suppliers.
Blandón agreed that Ross's replacements "weren't
taking care of the business" and said there were frequent

===== PDF PAGE 579 =====
feuds with Meneses's men. "They were calling me all the
time. 'Hey, the order didn't come with the money. The order
didn't come with the merchandise,' So that's the
relationship I had."
But most of his time and attention, Blandón said, was
devoted to what he called his "legitimate businesses." After
he got to Miami, Blandón invested his L.A. drug profits in a
string of companies, sometimes in partnership with an
exiled Nicaraguan judge, Jose Macario Estrada, a family
friend who was also Blandón's immigration lawyer. Like
Blandón, Macario was deeply involved with the FDN and its
Miami support network, working with the Contras to
arrange travel papers and work permits for rebel soldiers
and their families. He also helped to create a number of
nonprofit foundations in Miami that supported the Contra
cause.
"I was with the FDN here in Miami, working in Miami
since 1980," Macario confirmed in an interview with the
author. Before the revolution, acquaintances said, he'd
worked at the U.S. embassy in Managua, helping out in the
cultural attaches office. "We always joked that he was
working for the CIA," said one. Macario denied it, but it's
easy to see why others might have gotten that impression.
He had CIA agents for friends. In fact, they'd saved his life
in 1979.
"A squad of Sandinista revolutionaries came to pass me
by the arms, you know? Came to, what do you call it,
eliminate me in a summary proceedings." The next day he
decided to seek asylum in the embassy of Colombia,
which, as it turned out, was located in the home of
Macario's friend, attorney Carlos Icaza. A son-in-law of
General Edmundo Meneses, Icaza was the personal
attorney of Adolfo Calero, who had been a CIA agent

===== PDF PAGE 580 =====
before the 1979 revolution and would become the Contras'
political leader. Icaza shielded Macario from the
Sandinistas for a time, and Macario escaped the country
seven months after the revolution on the last day of
February 1980. "I have the anniversary of my escape once
every four years," he joked.
Macario's protector, Carlos Icaza, was publicly accused
by the Sandinistas of being a CIA agent in 1983, and a
warrant was issued for his arrest. He was charged with
being a central conspirator in a foiled CIA plot to poison
Nicaragua's foreign minister with a bottle of thalium-laced
Benedictine liqueur. Icaza fled Nicaragua and went to work
for the FDN in Honduras, as did his wife. Later he became
an attorney for Norwin Meneses (among other things, he
arranged the sale of a Salvador Dali painting Norwin
owned) and served as corporate lawyer for Norwin's
suspected money launderer, economist Orlando Murillo.
In late 1986 Jose Macario was appointed to a blue-
ribbon commission by the FDN to look into newspaper
allegations that the Contras were squandering U.S.
humanitarian aid money. Another member of that FDN
panel was accountant Rene Gonzalez of the Peat Marwick
& Mitchell office in Caracas, Venezuela.
After exonerating the FDN, both men became business
partners with Danilo Blandón in a company called Mex-US
Import and Export Inc. Other directors of that company
included Blandón's Mexican college friend and convicted
money launderer Sergio Guerra and a Panamanian
banker, Jose Fernando Soto, the longtime representative
of the Swiss Bank Corp. in Panama and an old friend of
Chepita's uncle, Orlando Murillo. Blandón also bought his
wife a business: Pupi's Children's Boutique, which Chepita
ran from a shopping mall in Sweetwater. And he bought

===== PDF PAGE 581 =====
into a Nicaraguan restaurant in Miami called La Parrilla.
La Parrilla had been started by Anastasio Somoza's
former counterinsurgency expert, Major General Gustavo
Medina, and Miami businessman Donald Barrios, the FDN
supporter who'd sent Blandón to fetch Norwin Meneses
from LAX six or seven years earlier in 1980 or 1981. Ricky
Ross's former cocaine supplier, Henry Corrales, also
owned a piece of the action, court records show. The
elegant restaurant became a hangout for Contra leaders
and was the site of pro-Contra demonstrations and
seminars. The 
Miami Herald
 lightheartedly described the
cuisine as "Contra cooking from ex-Somoza General
Gustavo Medina." Another story noted that "despite the
proximity of Fontainebleau Park, the apartment complex
that so reminds Nicaraguans of the Open Tres apartments
in their native Managua, La Parrilla customers are primarily
Cuban."
"The Cubans, our compatriots in exile, also are very fond
of Nicaraguan food," General Medina explained.
Blandón's restaurant was also a big hit with the food
critics. "The steak melts in your mouth," twittered one
Miami Herald
 reviewer. "Service is akin to the poshest
French restaurant." In 1987 the 
Herald
 named it "the best
Nicaraguan restaurant in Dade [County]" and awarded it
four stars, the paper's highest rating.
But the cocaine lord's main investment was in Alpha II
Rent-a-Car, which began with an office outside the Miami
International Airport and spread to twenty-four other
locations in southern Florida. Blandón's rent-a-car business
was so successful, court records show, he became an
authorized outlet for Chrysler Corporation and General
Motors vehicles.
Ross said he visited Blandón in Miami several times in

===== PDF PAGE 582 =====
mid-1987 and was treated like visiting royalty; Blandón
provided him with free rental cars and complimentary hotel
rooms. Meanwhile, Ross turned Blandón's daughters onto
rap music, bringing them the latest CDs and amazing them
with stories about the rappers he'd known and bankrolled
from his neighborhood. "Danilo took me around and
introduced me to his friends, like he was showing me off. I
was probably the only black guy any of them had ever met,"
he said. Several times, Ross said, Blandón dropped hints
that he'd like to do some business with him.
"He kept saying he could get me some stuff for really
cheap and we could make a lot of money with it in
Cincinnati." Ross knew Danilo was right. He'd checked
around town and had been amazed at how much folks in
Ohio were paying for their dope. "I got down there and
started meeting people and they were telling me, 'Aw, man,
it's this and it's that.' Then my friend from Miami came by
and said, 'Hey, man, come on, I'll give it for you for ten.' So
he was talking about giving it to me for $10,000 and in
Cincinnati, keys was selling for $50,000!" Ross laughed.
"Ounces were like $2,400. It was like when I first started."
When Blandón called him from Detroit one day in the fall
of 1987 and asked him to come up for a meeting, Ross
said he knew what his old friend had in mind. And, just as
surely, he knew that he would get in his car and make the
four-hour trip north. It wasn't just because Danilo was
asking, though Ross said his relationship with the
Nicaraguan was such that he would have done almost
anything for him. The real reason, Ross knew, was that he
missed cocaine trafficking. He was good at it; it was in
every fiber of his being.
"The business," as Danilo called it, had been custom-
made for him. It was his calling. God, Ross firmly believed,

===== PDF PAGE 583 =====
had put him on earth to be the Cocaine Man. When he
wasn't dealing, he was just like anybody else, maybe worse
—an illiterate high-school dropout. A zero. But give him a
pager and some dope, and he was a virtuoso. There
weren't too many people in this world who could dance
through a minefield of cops and snitches juggling
multimillion-dollar drug deals and emerge unscratched.
"It got to the point where I enjoyed selling drugs so much
that I could be in bed with my woman and, if the right person
paged me, I'd get up," Ross told the 
Los Angeles Times
.
So when Danilo offered him fifteen kilos and a good price,
Ross said, "I told him to bring them to me. I'll take them." He
was back in play.
Making Cincinnati his own was effortless. By then, Ross
was an old hand at creating new crack markets. "I knew the
recipe. It's just like it was in L.A. If you want to get in with the
blacks, you find out who the shot-caller [is]. And you talk to
him and you get him on your side. If he gives you
permission, you can go to his neighborhood and talk to his
guys. So that's what I did in Lincoln Heights," Ross later told
a Cincinnati reporter.
From there, he branched out to Over-the-Rhine, another
poor inner-city neighborhood, and then took his show to the
suburbs: Avondale, Mt. Airy, Bond Hill, St. Bernard,
Lockland, and Walnut Hills, using the same marketing
gimmicks he'd perfected in L.A.—free cocaine, smoke
parties, volume discounts. Once those operations were up
and running, Ross called back to L.A. and invited his
friends to come out and staff them.
"The recruits were given apartments, beepers, cocaine,
and instructtions on how to conduct street sales by using
phone booths, pagers, and mopeds. The drugs were
stored in the trunks of parked ears placed around the

===== PDF PAGE 584 =====
neighborhoods," the Justice Department's Inspector
General reported. "Most of these people were members of
gangs, most notably the Crips."
Suddenly, Cincinnati had two problems it never had
before: Crips and crack.
"In 1987, we had lots of crack in the east and west but
not in Cincinnati until Ricky Ross came here. There's no
doubt in my mind crack in Cincinnati can be traced to
Ross," said Sharonville, Ohio, police specialist Robert
Enoch.
But Ross didn't limit himself to the Queen City. He began
"going out of town," and the story was the same wherever
he went. With Blandón's cocaine prices, he could blow the
locals out of the water. So he did. His dope was turning up
in the hands of crack dealers in Toledo, Cleveland,
Columbus, Hamilton, Middle-town, and Fairfield, Ohio,
Indianapolis, St. Louis, Atlanta, and Texas. Even in faraway
Seattle, police officers viewed Ross' drug ring as "the
single most important group distributing crack cocaine in
the Seattle-Tacoma area."
"That was a guy who could sell Popsicles to an Eskimo,"
said San Fernando Police lieutenant Ernest I falcon, a
veteran undercover detective. "You want to say lie's a low-
life, no-good piece of crap. But you got to respect some of
these guys for their ambition and cunning. You got to give
the devil his due."
"I could go anywhere in the world and sell dope," Ross
said. "I just need one person in a city."
Mike Horton, a police officer assigned to a DEA task
force in Ohio, said Ross became known as the "10-million-
dollar man" in Cincinnati because of the money he was
supposedly making.
Ross said he made nowhere near that much. In ten

===== PDF PAGE 585 =====
months, he said, he sold 300 or 400 kilos of Blandón's
cocaine in the Midwest, netting around $2 million in profits.
He flew to Miami once a month to drop off cash. "Either we
met there, or we met in New York. I think we might have met
in Atlanta one time too," he said. He said he met with
Blandón and a Colombian named Tony in New York City
several times to place orders for cocaine.
Blandón confirmed that, and said he and Roger Sandino
visited Ross in Cincinnati. Ross also wired money to
Florida in Chepita's name, Blandón said, but claimed it
was paid to Sandino "because Roger Sandino was my
partner in the business."
At other times, Ross said, his friends in L.A. would just
stick the dope on a bus and let Greyhound do the driving.
And that was how Cincinnati authorities finally discovered
who was bringing all that crack into their city.
In September 1988 an eastbound Greyhound eased into
a station in New Mexico, and a state policeman walked by
the silver behemoth with a drug-sniffing dog. The canine got
near the luggage compartment and went crazy. Inside, the
officer found a suitcase carrying nine kilos of cocaine,
worth around $100,000. The luggage tag said the bag was
bound for Cincinnati. A call was placed to the Cincinnati
DEA, asking for advice. Let it come through, the DEA said.
We'll stake out the bus station and see who shows up.
A few days later one of Ross's employees, a young L.A.
Crip named Alphonso Jeffries, ambled into the bus depot
and claimed the suitcase, springing the DEA's trap.
Ross got the news and quickly assessed the damage.
Nine kilos was enough to put Alphonso Jeffries away for a
couple decades or more. The pressure would be on him to
roll over and give up someone else, and if the dominos
started falling, they would form a straight line to Freeway

===== PDF PAGE 586 =====
Rick. Ross contacted Jeffries and told him all his legal bills
would be paid and he'd have the best lawyers in town, as
long as he kept his mouth shut. Jeffries told him he would.
But it didn't matter. The mere fact that a Crip had been
caught in Cincinnati with cocaine "led to the FBI and DEA
field offices in Cincinnati to investigate allegations that the
Crips. . .were flooding the Cincinnati market with
inexpensive, high quality cocaine," the Justice Department
reported. The feds were on the hunt and Ross knew it was
only a matter of time.
Then, as if he didn't have enough problems, Ross
discovered that one his underlings was screwing his
girlfriend. That clinched it; he was getting fucked every
which way in Cincinnati. It was time to go home.
"I'd been gone a little over a year, so I felt that everything
had died down and people had forgot about me," he said.
"I sold what I had and I quit."
When he got back to L.A. in the fall of 1988, he wanted
nothing to do with cocaine. He was too worried about
Alphonso Jeffries, whose steadfast silence on Rick's behalf
had been rewarded with a twenty-year prison sentence.
That was straight federal time. No parole. For all Ross
knew, Jeffries had already rolled over on him. Ross went
into the home improvement business, buying specialized
equipment to spray acoustic ceilings, painting, and waiting
to see if the other shoe would drop.
"I guess about a month after I got back in L.A. he
[Blandón] started calling me again and asking me what was
the matter, why I'd stopped, and that Charlie and him wasn't
doing what they were supposed to be doing." Ross said he
told Blandón to forget it. He wasn't getting anywhere near
dope. "I had enough money. . .I was working and I was just
able to resist him."

===== PDF PAGE 587 =====
Blandón called two or three times a month, Ross said,
until the word got out that Ross was under investigation. A
grand jury in Smith County, Texas, returned an indictment
charging Ross with cocaine conspiracy. He had called his
cousins, the Mauldins, in Texas in May 1988 and discussed
a cocaine deal with them on a monitored line. A fugitive
warrant was issued.
"About three months after I was in L.A., they did a
program on CBS that was talking about me, that I was
under investigation in Cincinnati and also in Texas," he
said. "After the CBS program showed, [Danilo] stopped
calling me."
A lot of people stopped calling after that. Ricky Ross was
starting to smell like dead meat. As Ross had feared,
Alphonso Jeffries had broken. He told the police about
Ross's trips to New York City and California to pick up
cocaine in the fall of 1988. They'd brought twenty kilos back
from New York the first time, he said, and ten kilos the
second. DEA agents found travel records and motel
receipts that confirmed Jeffries's statements, and they
found Ross's fingerprints on several incriminating
documents.
In June 1989, Ross and thirteen other people were
indicted on federal charges of cocaine conspiracy in
Cincinnati, and another fugitive warrant was issued. Now
he had the state of Texas 
and
 the U.S. government after
him. Ross melted into South Central and kept his head
clown, staying busy with his construction work. Months went
by, and he heard nothing. One afternoon in late November,
he was pouring concrete at an apartment building when an
unmarked police car came screeching up.
"One of the guys says, 'That was the narcs.' And so when
he said it was the narcs, I ran, and when I ran they started

===== PDF PAGE 588 =====
shooting at me. I think they shot about twelve times at me."
Bullets zipping by, Ross scampered down East Coldon
Avenue, found an unlocked house, and barricaded himself
inside, retreating to a bedroom closet. In the darkness,
Ross pulled out a cell phone and frantically tried to call his
lawyer, Alan Fenster, while the police yelled at him to come
out. A two-man SWAT team arrived with a dog and
approached the house cautiously.
"They told me to come out," Ross said, "and the next
thing I knew they kicked the door in. They came in with a
dog. The dog came to the closet and he alerted that I was
in the closet."
The police pulled open the door, and Ross found himself
staring into the glare of several flashlights. He was told to
come out with his hands in front of him and to get down on
his knees, which he did. He was handcuffed, and "then all
of a sudden the dog just about went crazy. He started biting
—he started biting me all up in between my legs, on my butt
cheeks and he—he did it so long that I couldn't take the
pain no more, so I kicked him."
All the pent-up rage and frustration that the Los Angeles
police had saved up for Freeway Rick erupted in the next
instant.
"They started hitting me in the head with flashlights, and
one of them broke his flashlight on the top of my head right
here. And after he did that he went in the kitchen and got a
big frying pan—I think it was a 15-pound frying pan, he said
in court—and he clubbed me over the head with that. And
then he was kicking me all over my back and in my
stomach. I had boot marks all over me, all over my body."
Ross was taken to a hospital and charged with assault on a
police officer. The police claimed Ross had attacked them
with a frying pan, so, naturally, they'd had to subdue him.

===== PDF PAGE 589 =====
Bruised, sore, and swollen, the former crack king of L.A.
was unceremoniously dumped into a cell at the Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Correctional Center to await
extradition to Cincinnati. In all his life, things had never
seemed more hopeless. Politically, the timing of his
capture couldn't have been worse. In the past year, the
police and the media had finally discovered the connection
between the L.A. gangs and the spread of crack and
automatic weapons to cities and towns across America.
Newspapers, magazines, and TV shows were filled with
stories about L.A. gangbangers showing up in small-town
USA, packing Uzis and terrorizing the locals.
"Los Angeles drug gangs are spreading cocaine and
violence in cities nationwide and may become a new form
of organized crime unless they are stopped soon," worried
a July 1988 Associated Press story that appeared in many
newspapers around the country. 'Authorities say members
of two prominent rival drug gangs from Los Angeles, the
Crips and the Bloods, have infiltrated cities from Alaska to
Washington, D.C."
During the 1988 presidential campaign Washington had
gone on an antidrug crusade, in many ways more extreme
than the one in 1986, because now there were some facts
to back up the fear. Congressional hearings had unearthed
the links between crack profits and the proliferation of
assault rifles in the inner cities. Government studies had
been done, showing that L.A. had indisputably become the
main source of the nation's crack contagion, a giant
chancre oozing death and violence. "Los Angeles has
become the transshipment area for this problem," testified
assistant L.A. County sheriff Jerry Harper. "We are being
contacted regularly by officers from Oregon, Washington,
Arizona, Texas, Kansas, Missouri, Ohio, Louisiana,

===== PDF PAGE 590 =====
Florida, Hawaii and all with regard to gang members, Crips
and Bloods, and so forth, who have emanated from Los
Angeles and are transporting their drugs to other states
across the nation."
Los Angeles U.S. attorney Robert Bonner told Congress
that "these emerging modern-day gangsters have set up
raw cocaine distribution outlets in cities across the country.
I can assure you and members of this committee that if
these gangs are allowed to become entrenched in the drug
distribution business on a nationwide basis, which is the
direction they are headed, in the coming few years we will
find ourselves with an organized crime problem that will put
the Mafia to shame."
Alarmed by such reports, Congress passed a whole new
set of anti-crack laws that, among other things, made even
first-time offenders like Ross eligible for a mandatory ten-
year sentence, no parole.
Ross knew there was a good chance they would nail him
to the wall in Cincinnati, a city that had sent Larry Flynt to jail
just for selling dirty magazines. If anyone ranked lower than
a pornographer, it was someone like Ricky Ross. He
epitomized everything that decent, upright midwesterners
had come to hate and fear about the 1980s—a black crack
kingpin bringing all his Crip friends in from the Left Coast to
pollute their city with drugs and gangs. They knew how to
deal with people like him.
And if, by some miracle, he managed to beat the federal
rap, he had the folks in Texas waiting to get their hooks into
him, with their hundred-year prison sentences and well-
known love of black drug dealers. Try as he might, he could
see no way out. He wasn't dealing with the goons from the
Freeway Rick Task Force this time. These federal agents
weren't going to do anything stupid. Barring some divine

===== PDF PAGE 591 =====
intervention, he was finished.
Ross passed several gloomy months awaiting extradition
in the L.A. prison, growing more disconsolate with each
passing day. His friends gradually quit coming to sec him.
His properties began going into foreclosure. Everything
he'd worked for was crumbling away.
Then the people from the U.S. Department of Justice
came calling, and by the time they left, he could barely stop
smiling. God, it seemed, had not forsaken the Cocaine
Man after all.

===== PDF PAGE 592 =====
22

===== PDF PAGE 593 =====
"They can't touch us"
W
hen Ross was led from his cell at the MCC to meet the
representatives of the Justice Department, his thoughts had
been with Danilo Blandón. The feds, Ross assumed,
wanted his source. It was what the task force had been
after when they came to see him the last time he'd been
locked up. That was the way things worked. You got busted,
and they came to you with The Choice: be a rat or be a
jailbird.
He'd managed to duck the situation the last time, but he
wouldn't have that luxury again. The feds had him by the
balls. Now, it appeared, he would be forced to confront the
question he'd always dreaded: Could he rat out Danilo?
"He was Danilo, you know? He was, he was like my God,
my number one person," Ross said. "Hadn't many people
been there for me, you know, when I was coming up. So
Danilo was somebody that I felt had always been in my
corner and he always showed like he cared about me."
But to Ross's surprise and relief, the federal people had
no interest in the Nicaraguan. "They didn't ask me nothing
about who I was getting it from," Ross said. All the justice
Department wanted to hear about were his experiences
with the detectives on the Freeway Rick Task Force. They'd
been reading those complaints he and his friends had filed
against the officers. Were they true? And would he be
willing to testify to it?
Ross was dumbfounded. He'd been willing to testify two
years ago, but nobody had wanted to hear about it then.
Besides, the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division
had already looked into his complaints and dismissed them
for lack of evidence, or so he'd been told. Yet now they

===== PDF PAGE 594 =====
wanted to know if he would be a U.S. government witness
against the police. A drug dealer helping to put narcs in
jail? If that didn't beat all.
Ross had one question: What was in it for him? It could
change the way certain people felt about him, he was told. If
he cooperated and testified truthfully and honestly, it would
help when he appeared before the judge in Ohio for
sentencing. Plus, the government might decide not to seize
his properties or his remaining cash under the asset
forfeiture laws. And there was the added attraction of
getting back at the cops who had harassed him and his
family.
To the Justice Department, Ricky Ross was no longer a
dope peddler. He had become "a percipient witness in a
case involving allegations of serious misconduct" by
members of the Majors and the Freeway Rick Task Force.
An FBI sting called "Operation Big Spender" was behind
Ross's newfound credibility with the federal government.
"This may be a terrible thing to say," said L.A. County
sheriff Sherman Block, "but as we got into this thing, it
became obvious that the stories being told by the crooks
were more credible than the stories told by our officers."
In the fall of 1989, after Block received anonymous
complaints that the Majors were ripping off drug dealers,
the FBI sent an undercover agent into the Majors' territory
posing as a courier for a money launderer. The Majors
were tipped off that he was carrying a load of cash, which
could be found in his room at the Warner Center Marriott in
Woodland Hills. The FBI had reserved three adjoining
rooms at the hotel. The "courier" was in the middle. On one
side were agents manning video and audio gear; on the
other, a SWAT team.
It was like dangling a pork chop in front of a dog. Seizing

===== PDF PAGE 595 =====
cash had become the Majors' specialty by the end of the
1980s. They were no longer real narcotics detectives
anymore. Thanks to expanded asset forfeiture laws, the
Majors had become sin-tax collectors for Sheriff Block and
L.A. County.
In 1988 alone, the sheriff's office hauled in an astonishing
$33.9 million in cash, and another $33 million the following
year—along with 66 houses, 110 vehicles, 4 airplanes, and
2 businesses. Of the $33 million seized in 1988, the Majors
had brought in $13.6 million of it all by themselves, along
with 4,470 pounds of cocaine.
The lion's share of that booty had been produced by the
Majors II crew, which was now under the command of
Sergeant Robert Sobel—" El Diablo." After the Freeway
Rick Task Force disbanded in late 1987, Sobel was hand-
picked to lead Majors II, and he had driven his squad to
Olympian heights. "My men are all trained to tear flesh
when they scent blood!" Sobel had bragged in an
interdepartmental newsletter.
The Majors zeroed in on the FBI's "courier" so fast they
had a surveillance team in place before the FBI agents
arrived at the hotel. The detectives quickly learned that the
"courier" had reserved the rooms on either side of him and
got suspicious, wondering if they were being led into some
trap. Worried that the deputies would bust into the other
rooms and expose the sting, an FBI agent cautiously
approached Sobel's crew and told them they'd done their
jobs too well. They had stumbled on a federal undercover
operation and were about to expose it (which was
technically the truth). Would they be so kind as to leave the
area?
Two weeks later, the FBI tried again, this time renting a
room at the Valley Hilton Hotel in Sherman Oaks. Again the

===== PDF PAGE 596 =====
Majors snapped at the bait. A hidden video camera was
rolling as two plainclothes officers burst into the courier's
room and found $480,000 in a garment bag. "'Ohhhhh ho
ho!" one deputy exclaimed as she pulled the bag from
under the bed and opened it. "Is this your bag?"
The deputies skimmed $48,000 of the marked cash,
stuffed it into a gym bag, and left. Sobel and other deputies
then entered the room and questioned the undercover FBI
agent, Indalecio Guzman, about the money. After the agent
claimed no knowledge of where the cash came from, one
deputy persuaded him to sign a form disclaiming
ownership of the remaining money. "[You] can say room
service left it," Sobel joked.
In a series of lightning raids that night, the authorities
found some of the marked cash in the homes and cars of
the deputies. Sheriff Block immediately suspended nine
members of the squad.
Within forty-eight hours, distraught and appearing heavily
medicated, "El Diablo" Sobel approached the feds and
volunteered to testify against his crew. He admitted that
much of what Ross and his partners had accused them of
was true: the task force had routinely beaten suspects, a
practice known as giving someone a "tune-up"; planted
dope, called "flaking" a suspect; lied in court; falsified
search warrant affidavits; and stolen drug money—
hundreds of thousands of dollars—by turning in only a
portion of what they had seized.
With their ill-gotten gains, the Majors had gone on
spending sprees, buying vacation homes on the Colorado
River, big-screen TVs, jewelry, fancy cars, boats, helicopter
lessons, and Hawaiian vacations. The FBI discovered that
LAPD detective Polak had liposuction performed on his
buttocks, and his wife bad paid cash for a breast

===== PDF PAGE 597 =====
enlargement operation. The agents were told of Dom
Perignon-drenched parties; officers were dabbling in
stocks and bonds and starting side businesses.
Remarkably; considering their line of work, the detectives
had left a paper trail of their excesses a mile long.
On February 22, 1990, a federal grand jury indicted ten
deputies on twenty-seven counts of theft, income tax
evasion, and conspiracy. And prosecutors promised they
were just getting started. There were more indictments to
come.
One of the first to be charged was Deputy Daniel Garner,
a hard-nosed detective who had been one of the spiritual
leaders of Majors II. Garner decided that if he was going
down, he was going down fighting. He hired one of L.A.'s
most high-profile criminal lawyers, Harland W. Braun, who
had defended Lee Marvin in his famous "palimony" suit and
would later successfully represent one of the officers in the
Rodney King beating case.
"Dan Garner came in my office and told me that there
was nothing the feds were going to be able to do to them
because he had proof that they were dealing in drugs and
laundering drug money," Braun recalled in an interview. "lie
said, 'They can't touch us.' And he gave me these papers
he said they had seized in a drug raid several years
earlier." They were some of the documents the Majors had
taken from Ronald Lister's house in 1986, which Garner
had secreted away as "insurance." Though Braun privately
doubted the records would have the impact Garner
expected, he agreed they could be a useful bargaining chip
down the road. Certainly, the Majors had little else to pin
their hopes on. While the FBI had an incriminating
videotape, marked cash, and tape recordings Sobel had
secretly made of the deputies plotting their defense at a

===== PDF PAGE 598 =====
bar, all the detectives had were some lame stories about
hitting jackpots in Las Vegas and loans from relatives.
Garner and his codefendants went on trial in October
1990, and the federal prosecutors led off their case by
playing the devastating videotape for the jurors, who
became noticeably upset at the sight of police officers
helping themselves to bundles of suspected drug money
and then joking about it. Braun decided it was time to
spring the Lister papers on the government. While he was
cross-examining one of the FBI agents who had
participated in the Big Spender sting, he casually asked if
the agent knew anything about seized drug money being
laundered by the federal government and then diverted to
the Contras by the CIA. Federal prosecutors leaped to their
feet to object, and Braun let the question hang for a bit
before moving on to another topic.
After court, Braun walked out onto the steps of the
federal building in downtown Los Angeles and held his
usual post-trial spin session with the reporters covering the
case. One scribe asked about the strange question he'd
put to the FBI agent about the Contras and the CIA. Braun
calmly replied that he was laying the groundwork for his
client's defense: outrageous government conduct. Deputy
Garner, Braun pointed out, was a court-certified expert in
money-laundering issues, and Garner would explain how
some of the cash they were accused of stealing from drug
dealers had been laundered by the CIA and used to buy
arms for the Contras and other covert operations.
Braun's startling claims were mentioned in the
seventeenth paragraph of the 
L.A. Times
's trial story the
next day, but the Justice Department reacted as if he'd
written them in the sky while riding a broom. Assistant U.S.
Attorney Thomas Hagemann ran to Judge Edward

===== PDF PAGE 599 =====
Rafeedie and demanded a gag order against all of the
defense attorneys in the case, complaining that they had
"publicized matters that are likely to seriously impair the
right of the defendants, the government and the public to a
fair trial." He singled out Braun in particular, reporting his
accusations that "the government laundered drug profits
which were diverted by the CIA to the Nicaraguan Contras
and Iran."
Braun responded with an inflammatory motion opposing
the gag order, in which he exposed the long-hidden details
of the Majors' 1986 raid on Ronald Lister's house. Lister,
who wasn't identified by name, was referred to as "a money
launderer who [Majors II] knew was associated with a major
drug and money laundering ring connected to the Contras
in Nicaragua."
Braun told of Lister's claim of CIA connections and the
strange items the deputies had hauled from his house:
"Films of military operations in Central America, technical
manuals, information on assorted military hardware and
communications and numerous documents indicating that
drug money was being used to purchase military
equipment for Central America. The officers also
discovered blown-up pictures of the suspect in Central
America with the Contras showing military equipment and
military bases. The suspect also was discovered to have
maintained a 'way-station' for Nicaraguan transients in
Laguna Niguel, California. Officers also pieced together the
fact that this suspect was also working with the Blandón
family which was importing narcotics from Central America
into the United States."
Braun's motion linked "the Blandón family" to the crash of
Eugene Hasenfus's C-123K cargo plane in Nicaragua in
October 1986, the same crash Scott Weekly claimed on

===== PDF PAGE 600 =====
tape that he'd been "tied into." It also told of the Lister files
disappearing as "federal agents swooped down on the
sheriff's headquarters and removed all the recovered
property. Mysteriously all records of the search, seizure and
property also 'disappeared' from the Sheriff's Department."
Garner, Braun wrote, had secretly made copies of "10
pages of the documents seized from the CIA operative,"
which he said "give the name of CIA operatives in Iran,
specifically mention the Contras, list various weaponry that
was being purchased and even diagram the route of drug
money out of the United States, back into the United States
purchasing weaponry for the Contras as well as naming the
State Department as one of the agencies involved."
Braun said he'd asked the justice Department to provide
a letter "stating explicitly that no drug money was used by
the United States government or any United States
government agency to purchase weapons for the Contras
or weapons to be traded for hostages from Iran" but it had
refused to do so, which Braun interpreted as "a tacit
admission" that Garner's claims were true. "The court will
note that nowhere in the declaration by the United States
attorney does he state that this allegation is false. From this
counsel concludes that in fact the government concedes the
truth of the statement and only attempts to again suppress it
so the public will not know about these illegal activities,"
Braun wrote. "The government obviously fears the exposure
of its drug financed Central American operations."
The seven deputies on trial, Braun noted, weren't the
ones complaining about unfair publicity, even though they
had been pilloried in the media by federal prosecutors
since the day they were indicted. "The only party that
complains about the publicity is the very party that was
arguably using drug money to buy weapons for the

===== PDF PAGE 601 =====
Contras," Braun wrote.
The next day the Justice Department fired back with a
motion of its own. Once again sidestepping the issue of
whether Garner's allegations were true or false,
prosecutors asked Judge Rafeedie to issue a court order
"excluding any questions, testimony, or other evidence
relating to any alleged CIA plot to launder drug money to
finance Nicaraguan operations or operations in Iran."
Those claims, prosecutor Hagemann wrote, were "wholly
irrelevant" to the case, and "would be nothing more than a
smokescreen to divert the jury's attentions from the issues."
Since the raid had occurred in 1986, Hagemann argued, it
was "well outside the time frame of any allegations in the
indictment. . .there is thus no connection of any kind
between this scheme involving the CIA and this case. This
evidence would do nothing more than confuse the jury and
be a waste of time."
Judge Rafeedie called the lawyers into his courtroom the
next morning and lashed out at Braun, calling him sneaky
and unprofessional. The motion he'd filed, Rafeedie
stormed, was a "bad faith" effort to get the information out
to the public. "Even if everything that you have said in this
document is true, it has nothing to do with whether or not
your client filed a false income tax return or whether or not
he was stealing money and making purchases with the
money that was stolen," Rafeedie raged. "That is, what the
CIA or the government did has nothing to do with that, so
far as I can see. I cannot conceive of any theory under
which that evidence would be admissible in the case and
therefore, putting this information out in the guise of an
opposition to a restraining order simply to ensure that it
gets into the public print and perhaps might contaminate
this case or create undue prejudice—frankly, I am

===== PDF PAGE 602 =====
disappointed in you, Mr. Braun. I do not believe that a
lawyer of your ability and skill would ever even consider that
this evidence would be admissible."
(Rafeedie would later display the same sensitivity to
suggested CIA links during one of the trials involving the
1985 murder of DEA agent Enrique "Kiki" Camarena.
When defense lawyers tried to introduce evidence alleging
CIA and Contra involvement with Mexican drug lords,
Rafeedie ruled the information was irrelevant to the murder
and refused to allow the jury to hear it.)
Stunned by Rafeedie's vehemence, Braun tried to reply,
but the judge told him to sit down and shut up. "This
opposition which you filed is the most clear and convincing
evidence that an order—a restraining order—in this case is
necessary," Rafeedie told him. "This document manifests a
continuing intention to use the media to make statements in
the public. . .which violate the American Bar Association
model rules of professional conduct and I have, after
receiving this, decided that it is appropriate to issue an
order in this case, and I intend to do that."
Braun once again asked to be heard, but Rafeedie told
him it didn't matter what he had to say; he was issuing the
gag order immediately. The order, he was informed,
prevented him from saying anything "that a reasonable
person would expect to be disseminated by means of
public communication." Any violation would be "viewed as
contempt of this court and punished accordingly." It was,
Rafeedie noted, only the second time in his twenty-one
years on the bench that he'd had to gag an attorney.
Finally Braun was permitted to speak. He asked
Rafeedie to give him some time and some leeway to
gather additional evidence to substantiate Garner's claims.
"We are not trying to determine the Iran-Contra affair,"

===== PDF PAGE 603 =====
Rafeedie snapped. "Suppose I accept as true everything
you have said. . .I don't see the relevance."
Braun complained that Rafeedie's gag order would
make it impossible for him to find witnesses to corroborate
Garner's contentions, but Rafeedie was unmoved, and he
refused to allow Braun to pursue the subject. Garner, during
his testimony, did manage to tell the jury that he discovered
"the CIA was doing, conducting illegal activities in which the
guys in the CIA were getting rich," but the jurors were told to
disregard the comments.
Six of the seven deputies were convicted of corruption
charges and sent to prison. Garner received one of the
harshest sentences—fifty-four months. In 1996 he was
released from prison. He emerged defiant. "I didn't pump
500 tons of cocaine into the ghetto," Garner said. "I stole
American money and spent it in America. The United
States government can't say that."
Before the Big Spender investigation was over, most of
the officers who had worked on the Majors' investigation of
Blandón and the Freeway Rick Task Force would be
charged with crimes or forced out of law enforcement.
Bell PD detective Jerry Guzzetta—the narcotics officer
who originally began the investigation into the Blandón
operation—was accused of stealing cocaine, but never
charged. In 1988 IRS agent Carl Knudsen, who'd had a
falling-out with Guzzetta over his handling of the Torres
brothers, blamed Guzzetta for the disappearance of six
kilos of cocaine the police department had stored in a
public storage locker. The L.A. County Sheriff's Office was
called in to investigate but could find no evidence that
Guzzetta had anything to do with the theft. (Indeed, it was
discovered that the Bell police had given one of the keys to
the locker to a convicted drug dealer working as a police

===== PDF PAGE 604 =====
informant.) Though two prosecutors examined the case and
declined to press charges, Guzzetta said the investigation
ruined his career. He filed a lawsuit against the city, which
was later settled out of court, and retired on a partial
disability.
He remains convinced that he and the Majors were
targeted for destruction because of their investigation of
Blandón. "Every policeman who ever got close to Blandón
was either told to back off, investigated by their
department, forced to retire or indicted," Guzzetta
complained to police investigators in 1996. He "felt that he
had been victimized by a conspiracy which damaged and
ruined many police officers who had attempted to bring
Blandón and his organization to justice."
Former deputy Virgil Bartlett, who assisted on the
Blandón raids, disagreed. "Nobody humbugged Operation
Big Spender. Nobody set us up. We screwed ourselves.
Nobody prosecuted me for anything I didn't do."
The last Big Spender indictment to come down was
against Sergeant Thomas Gordon, the chief investigator of
the Blandón case, who was accused of spending stolen
drug money to fix up his house in San Dimas. He was
charged with money laundering and tax evasion and,
representing himself, fought the government to a draw on
money-laundering charges. He was convicted on the tax
charges.
Defense lawyer Harland Braun had no way of knowing it, of
course, but his efforts to drag Ronald Lister into the 1990
Big Spender case came perilously close to exposing the
Contra drug connection—which may explain the Justice
Department's frenzied efforts to gag Braun and keep the lid

===== PDF PAGE 605 =====
on the 1986 raids on Lister and Blandón.
By the time of the deputies' trial, Ronald Lister was
working for the DEA as an informant, and had been briefing
federal prosecutors about his work on behalf of the Contras
and the CIA during the 1980s. The DEA considered him to
be such a valuable source of information that it had
interceded with local police to keep him out of prison.
Lister's transformation from a drug trafficker to a drug
warrior began in August 1988, when he met a prostitute at
a party and confided that he could get her some cocaine if
she wanted it. The hooker, a police informant, ran to tell the
cops, and the Costa Mesa Police Department sent out an
undercover agent, who ended up buying two kilos of
cocaine from the ex-detective. But after just two days in jail,
Lister was released on his own recognizance and put back
on the streets, apparently having convinced the Costa
Mesa detectives that he would be more valuable to them as
an undercover informant.
In late 1989, to the chagrin of Costa Mesa authorities,
Lister was arrested by DEA agents in San Diego and
charged with conspiracy to distribute thirteen kilos of
cocaine.
But the same thing happened again. Instead of being
taken off the streets, Lister was soon back walking them as
an undercover police informant. Lister had mesmerized the
DEA and U.S. Attorney's office as easily as he had
charmed the Costa Mesa police. Why were these police
agencies so eager to drop slam-dunk drug cases for the
honor of having Ronald J. Lister as an informant? Easy. He
was their ticket to the big time. He was going to lead them
to the crime of the century.
Today, the cops and lawyers who worked with Lister call
him a pathological liar, a master manipulator, a charlatan, a

===== PDF PAGE 606 =====
con man, a louse. But that wasn't what they thought when
they signed him up as an informant and turned him loose on
an unsuspecting public. They thought he was James Bond.
And they fancied themselves as M.
During the negotiations for Mr. Lister's services, his
attorney, Lynn Ball, sent the San Diego DEA and U.S.
Attorney's office a resume of his client's work history,
touting him as a man who "has the experience to be one of
the most outstanding [informants] any agency could have."
Lister "knows the cocaine business better than most
people," Ball said. He'd worked "for the governments of El
Salvador, Colombia, Italy, and Iran." He knew intelligence
operatives and weapons smugglers. He had worked with
the Contras, including Eden Pastora. And, he could finger
Norwin Meneses and Danilo Blandón.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Amalia Meza, in a 1997 interview
with CIA inspectors, said San Diego DEA agent Chuck
Jones suggested using Lister as an informant in an
investigation he was conducting of Danilo Blandón, so she
asked Lister's attorney, Lynn Ball, if Lister would be
interested. The reaction from Lister's lawyer was
memorable. "Ball indicated that Lister was going to have to
check with 'the Agency' first to see if he could provide
information regarding the Blandón organization,"
prosecutor Meza recalled. "Ball later indicated that Lister
had been given 'clearance' to cooperate." Lister then
began a series of extensive debriefings and grand jury
appearances. "Lister alluded to the CIA during debriefings,
but no one from the investigative team pursued that
subject," Meza reported. "The focus of the U.S. Attorney's
investigation was on cocaine smuggling." She claimed she
"never questioned Lister about, 
nor allowed him to
discuss
, any involvement of CIA or any other U.S.

===== PDF PAGE 607 =====
government agency during these debriefings" [emphasis
added).
But Lister said there was another motive behind the
prosecutor's lack of curiosity about such an interesting
topic. In a letter to his reputed "CIA contact," David Scott
Weekly, written while Lister was in prison in July 1990,
Lister said his debriefers "are purposely staying away from
anyone who might be connected to the Agency, like
Pastora. They would like me to tell them who they can't get
because of a nat'l sec [national security] block," Lister
informed Weekly. "They are extremely afraid of a nat'l
security block. So their logic is to go after. . .people and
assoc. . ..where personal gain is clear and no Contra
activity appears. They say they don't even want to know
about the Contra organization or anything related."
Lister appeared before a federal grand jury four times
providing detailed physical evidence, a complete
chronology from 1982 to 1986 of "a big Central American
operation," and naming roughly 80 people who worked with
the Blandón drug ring. He also provided information to San
Francisco FBI agent Don Hale, Norwin Meneses' pursuer.
Lister said Hale was convinced that Lister and the
Nicaraguans "were connected with the CIA. . .[Hale] wanted
to prove a connection between the U.S. government, the
Contras and drug smuggling."
On December 20, 1990, ten days after the verdicts in the
first Big Spender case were handed down, Ronald Lister
was released from federal custody and sent out into the
world as an undercover DEA informant "to assist the
government in an investigation." He went to work as a
salesman for a San Diego company called Markon Inc., an
international barter brokerage owned by Scott Weekly, aka
"Dr. Death." Whether the DEA was using Weekly's

===== PDF PAGE 608 =====
company as cover or if Lister was also spying on Weekly is
not clear.
Whatever the reason, DEA records show that Lister
began engaging in some very unorthodox activities for a
federal informant—moving mountains of cash for drug
traffickers, just as he'd done while working with Blandón in
South Central. Barely six months after he began working for
the DEA, Lister strolled into Anthony's Fish Grotto, a
waterfront San Diego restaurant, to have lunch with several
Colombian drug traffickers and their associates.
Unbeknownst to Lister, two of the men at the table were
undercover DEA agents, posing as money launderers.
According to their reports, one of the Colombians
demanded to know what Lister had done with some
$500,000 he'd been given to launder. "At this time, Lister
commenced to explain how he had originally received
instructions from Colombia to wire transfer the money to a
European bank, only later to be told to transfer it to another
account," the DEA report stated. "Lister went on to say that
he could not wire transfer the money from the account again
since it was originally laundered with the assistance of the
CIA. At this time, Lister explained how he and the CIA used
to transport multi-hundred kilo loads of cocaine from Cali,
Colombia and Costa Rica to the U.S." The DEA agent
wrote that Lister had a paper in his hand that "appeared to
be a copy of an outgoing wire transfer. On it, the agent
noticed the following: 'Swiss Bank of New York, World
Trade Center, #101-WA' (the rest of the numbers not
obtained.)"
Lister was asked by one of the undercover agents "if he
knew what would happen to him if he refused or failed to
pay back the money. Lister replied that he had nothing to
fear since he worked for the CIA. At this time the agent

===== PDF PAGE 609 =====
asked Lister if he was also employed with the FBI or the
DFA, to which he replied, 'No.'" Lister's explanation
apparently didn't mollify the Colombians. The group's
leader, Osvaldo Montalvo, was overheard telling his
associates "that Lister was a dead man."
A few days later, according to a federal prosecutor
familiar with the case, "one of our undercover agents was
being contacted by the Colombians and they said, 'By the
way, we want to kill this guy Lister, and if we can't kill him
we're going to kidnap his mother and put her on the phone
and torture her so he pays us back the $600,000 he stole
from us.' We ran Lister through the indices and he showed
up as an informant, so we brought him in, actually brought
him into San Diego PD and said, 'We have reason to
believe there is a threat against your life, a serious threat.
We arc taking it seriously, we are offering to protect you if
you want it.'"
Lister, he said, laughed off the offer to place him in the
Witness Protection Program and said he wasn't afraid of
any "fucking Colombians." 'The prosecutor made Lister
sign a waiver of liability absolving the Justice Department
of any responsibility in case he turned up dead.
Lister went back to one of the Colombians and told him
that he knew what they were up to. He was so unconcerned,
he said, that he had declined federal protection, which he
proved by whipping out the liability waiver he'd signed. He
told the Colombian that he "did not need any protection
since he and his associate, Scott Weekly, could take care
of themselves. Lister further commented that Weekly was a
U.S. Seal and well equipped to take care of anything."
To show the Colombian he was serious, Lister also
pulled out some surveillance photos of the undercover DEA
agents who'd been at lunch with him. "The photographs

===== PDF PAGE 610 =====
appeared to have been taken from a top floor," a DFA
report stated. "Lister claimed that the photographs were
taken by his surveillance people."
In mid-June 1991, the prosecutor said, federal agents
intercepted the hit team the Colombians had sent to kill
Lister. "They were stopped at the Temecula immigration
check point with a picture of Lister and a map to his
mother's house and they were in the country illegally and we
deported them," he said. "We saved his worthless life."
Embarrassed by the fact that another DEA team had
discovered their prize informant was laundering money for
Colombian drug dealers, Lister's DEA handlers threw him
in jail for violating the terms of his plea agreement. In a
motion filed to cancel their deal and send Lister to prison,
the case agents claimed Lister was involved in money
laundering through Weekly's company, Markon Corp.,
which they said "was set up to launder money from
narcotics and weapons sales. . .defendant intended to sell
weapons as well." Weekly insisted Markon was a
legitimate trading company. In any event, no charges were
ever filed against Markon or Weekly.
Lister and his attorney bitterly protested the DEA's
attempt to toss the ex-cop back in prison, and argued that
Lister had provided quite a bit of help on the investigation
of Blandón and Meneses. If the feds couldn't bust the
Nicaraguans, they said in a court motion, that wasn't
Ronald Lister's fault. "These reasons may have more to do
with so-called 'national security' and political decisions
made by the Attorney General, the State Department, the
Central Intelligence Agency, and other agencies," the
motion stated. "A decision not to prosecute individuals in
order to avoid embarrassing high government officials for
possible complicity in drug dealing should not be sufficient

===== PDF PAGE 611 =====
reason for this defendant not to be able to have the
advantage of his plea bargain for cooperation." In a letter to
federal Judge Rudi Brewster, who was handling the case,
Lister warned him that the federal government had been
playing games with the Blandón case for a long time. "In
1986, the main players and myself came very close to
indictment but the government chose not to proceed
because of 'matters of national security,'" Lister wrote.
After first granting Lister's motion for a hearing, Judge
Brewster quickly changed his mind and ordered Lister to
serve eight years in prison for drug trafficking. The Blandón
investigation was taken away from Lister's handler, Amalia
Meza, and given to Assistant U.S. Attorney L.J. O'Neale, a
man who is quick to inform people that he has a top secret
security clearance and is an expert in handling national
security cases. (Coincidentally, O'Neale was the Assistant
U.S. Attorney who five years earlier indicted former Green
Beret Colonel James "Bo" Gritz for misuse of a passport,
shortly after Gritz and Scott Weekly returned from Burma
singing songs of CIA involvement with heroin trafficking.)
O'Neale would eventually become Blandón's biggest
booster within the Justice Department.
DEA agent Judy Gustafson said Lister dropped by her
office shortly after his release from prison in 1996 to pick
up some belongings and once again "discussed his
connection to the CIA." If the Justice Department thought
the CIA would ever tell them anything about him, Lister
laughingly told the agent as he headed out the door
towards freedom, they were dreaming.
For Ricky Ross, Operation Big Spender brought only glad
tidings. He became one of the federal government's star
witnesses in the second round of corruption trials in 1991,
and his appearance on the witness stand was, in some

===== PDF PAGE 612 =====
ways, an historic occasion. It was the first time that the man
who had helped touch off L.A.'s crack explosion appeared
in public to tell his story.
The federal prosecutor handling the case called Ross
"probably the most significant drug dealer" ever to testify
for the government. Freeway Rick, along with a host of
lesser dealers appearing as government witnesses,
opened up the inner world of big-time crack dealing to a
wide-eyed public.
Ross bluntly told the jurors that by the end of the 1980s
he'd sold thousands and thousands of kilos of cocaine in
South Central L.A., becoming a multimillionaire by the time
he was twenty-two. He told of the properties he owned, the
big speedboat he had docked at Marina Del Rev, his fleet
of cars, his ski trips to Aspen, and his fourteenth-row seats
at the Lakers games. Another major LA. crack dealer who
testified for the government, Alander Smith, corroborated
Ross's story.
"Smith waxed at length on the economic empire—
including a thriving tire shop, apartment investments and
motel construction—of Ricky Ross, a convicted trafficker
who has been described as the godfather of the rock
cocaine trade in South Central Los Angeles in the mid-
1980s," the 
San Diego Union-Tribune
 reported.
But Smith, who was serving a life sentence without the
possibility of parole, made his federal handlers cringe when
he launched into an impromptu lecture on the Drug War.
Peering intently at the jury from behind steel-rimmed
glasses and firmly gripping the microphone at the witness
stand, Smith accused government officials of bringing
drugs into the United States. "Yes, I mean President Bush,"
Smith told the jurors pointedly. "When lie was with the CIA
and now. . .. The government is the only people that have

===== PDF PAGE 613 =====
the access to the equipment, but the minorities are the
ones who do the time for it."
Such comments, combined with the sentence reductions
and other favors Ross and his cohorts had been given by
the government to secure their cooperation against the
deputies, didn't sit well with the jurors, who had difficulty
accepting the testimony of drug dealers over the denials of
the accused officers. Under cross-examination, Ross
admitted that the Justice Department had agreed to cut his
sentence in half and had permitted him to keep his
remaining properties and his money, which he valued at
around $2 million.
Outraged, the jurors acquitted most of the indicted
officers and cited Ross's deal as one of their reasons.
"They really gave away the farm on that one," one juror told
the 
Los Angeles Times
.
The LAPD detective who was the architect of the
Freeway Rick Task Force, Ross's nemesis Steve Polak,
was one of those acquitted. He was later reindicted on civil
rights and income tax charges and pleaded guilty to
violating Ollie Newell's civil rights by beating him up.
Embittered, Polak retired from the police force,
complaining that he'd been sold out by his own department
and persecuted by government lawyers who'd "crawled into
bed with drug dealers to go after cops."
Though the Big Spender investigation was ultimately a
flop for the Justice Department, Ross had lived up to his
end of the bargain. In February 1992, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Michael Emmick (who would later gain notoriety
as a member of Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr's
Whitewater prosecution team) dutifully went to court and
urged that the crack lord be given a break, praising his
cooperation as "more than satisfactory." Ross, Emmick

===== PDF PAGE 614 =====
said, "was on the stand for three to four days. He was
cross-examined in excruciating detail about all imaginable
subjects. Ross answered those questions without
hesitation and, in my opinion, did so honestly and candidly."
His sentence was trimmed from ten years to fifty-one
months, which made him eligible for release in a little over
a year. Ross was sent to the federal prison in Phoenix,
Arizona, to serve the rest of his time.

===== PDF PAGE 615 =====
23

===== PDF PAGE 616 =====
"He had the backing of a superpower"
T
hough he had successfully navigated the treacherous
waters of the cocaine industry for nearly a decade, Blandón
learned that he was unprepared for the sharks of legitimate
commerce.
His twenty-four-location rent-a-car business, Alpha II,
suffered when a deal to rent thousands of cars to hordes of
German sightseers in the 1988–89 season vaporized at
the last minute. "I make a contract—3,000 cars to be rented
to the German people," Blandón explained. "But I didn't
have enough cars. So I get a credit from Chrysler for 250
cars, and I get a credit from General Motors of 300 cars."
But when Chrysler discovered he was making deals with
GM, he said, his $ 1.5 million line of credit was yanked. He
was forced to go out and beg cars from other rental
companies. "I lost $300,000 in three months." In early
October 1988 his lender filed a notice to foreclose on the
rental agency's office near the Miami airport, and by early
January 1989 his company was bleeding money. "I had to
get cash," Blandón said. Fortunately he knew just where to
get it.
Alpha II Rent-a-Car had apparently been the Doper's
Choice for wheels in sunny Miami, and Danilo had gotten to
know some very heavy hitters. "I did a lot of favors to the
Colombians in Miami with my rent-a-car [business]. They
used to go—they don't have a credit card, so I rent it with a
deposit, $500 deposit, and they rented the car. So I, I got a
lot of connections in, in those three years that I was running
my business. . .. They were my friends because of my
business."
He felt particularly close to Colombian Humberto

===== PDF PAGE 617 =====
Cardona, because Cardona was supplying Danilo's
Nicaraguan associates in South Central. "This guy used to
go every week to my place, this Mr. Cardona. He used to
go every week. He had a lot of business." Cardona, whom
Blandón called "El Fruco," was one of Colombia's better
known cocaine kings. When the Colombian government
agreed to extradite him and five other traffickers to the
United States in late 1985, it was international news, hailed
as a sign of increasing cooperation between the
Colombian and U.S. governments. (There was one
trafficker the Colombians were refusing to extradite, UPI
noted: Juan Matta Ballesteros, the Honduran billionaire
whose airline, SETCO, was flying supplies for the Contras.
Instead of turning Matta over to U.S. courts, the Colombians
deported him to Honduras, which did not extradite its
citizens, and he continued dealing drugs.)
Humberto Cardona's extradition to the United States
appears to have been equally painless. A mere three years
later, according to Blandón, he was jetting around the
world, and supplying the South Central crack market
through Meneses's men, Roger Sandino and Jose
Gonzalez Morales.
Blandón poured out his tale of financial woe to the chunky
Colombian, and El Fruco had a novel idea: Why not get
back into the cocaine business? It was hotter than ever.
Why, he'd just sold Blandón's friends in L.A. a ton of
cocaine—literally. Two thousand kilos. "So if you want to go
back, I can get some merchandise in L.A. and you don't
have to worry about the money that you have been losing
down here," Blandón said Cardona told him. "So I started
thinking. And I got back."
Blandón put his rental car agency into bankruptcy and
moved his family back to California, settling in San Diego

===== PDF PAGE 618 =====
in a house owned by his old college buddy Sergio Guerra,
the smooth Mexican millionaire. Guerra had become a well-
known figure in San Diego business circles, owning
profitable parking lots and car dealerships. He was on the
board of the San Diego YMCA and had generously
donated property in downtown San Diego to the Chamber
of Commerce, to build a tourist information center. He was
also smuggling cocaine and gold into the United States,
court records say.
Perched high on a hillside overlooking San Diego's busy
harbor, Blandón began the task of reassembling his
cocaine network. He immediately reunited with the
Meneses family. "In '89, back in business, I started doing
business with Jose Gonzalez in San Francisco. He was the
contact with the Meneses family because I know all the
Meneses family—their names, OK? But I never, at that
time, I never come to deal with them because Norwin didn't
let me be in touch with them. So I was in touch with Jose
Gonzalez, spoke with the people, with Omar [Meneses],
with Guillermo [Meneses]—they introduced me to Guillermo
by phone the first time—and all the people: [Rafael]
Cornejo, Roger [Meneses], Omar, and Jairo Morales
[Meneses]."
When Norwin was away in Central America, Blandón
said, nephew Jairo Morales ran the family cocaine
business in San Francisco, and Norwin was away a lot.
About two weeks after former CIA director George Bush
had been sworn in as president, the U.S. Attorney's Office
in San Francisco brought a secret indictment against
Meneses, finally charging him with a few of the crimes he'd
committed back in the mid-1980s. The two-count
indictment accused him of conspiracy to import cocaine
between 1984 and 1985 and possession of one kilo in

===== PDF PAGE 619 =====
1985—during the period when he was having meetings
with CIA agent Adolfo Calero, hosting FDN breakfasts,
squiring FDN officials around L.A., and holding FDN
functions at the T-shirt factory Blandón was managing.
Norwin was declared a fugitive, and a federal magistrate
signed an arrest warrant. Then, curiously, both the warrant
and the indictment were locked away in the vaults at the
San Francisco federal courthouse, where they would
remain sealed from public view for the next nine years.
Meneses called the indictment "a phony," suggesting it
was filed to protect the U.S. government in case its
relationship with him was ever revealed. He hadn't been
coddled or protected, it could now be argued; he'd been
indicted.
Eric Swenson, the federal prosecutor who filed the case
against Meneses, said the indictment was returned
because the case against Meneses was so old that it was
fast approaching the statute of limitations. If an indictment
wasn't returned soon, it never could be. Secondly, Swenson
said, "it materialized that there was some information that
he was back in the [cocaine] business and it was like, All
right, we'll indict his ass and if he gets arrested and comes
back into the country, we'll see if he wants to cooperate
then.'"
But what Swenson apparently didn't know is that
Meneses 
was
 cooperating—with the Costa Rican DEA—
and that he had been for the past two years, which makes
those reports of Meneses' continued involvement with drug
trafficking even more intriguing.
"Surprisingly, in 1989, even after the San Francisco
indictment and arrest warrant were issued, Meneses
continued to work as an informant for the DEA in Costa
Rica and travel to the United States on behalf of the DEA,"

===== PDF PAGE 620 =====
the Justice Department Inspector General marveled.
"During this time, the FBI was apparently unaware of his
activities. . ." Records show DEA agents were regularly
sending the drug kingpin on still-classified missions to San
Francisco, Miami, L.A., Panama, and Colombia and
paying him thousands of dollars for his time. Moreover, the
Costa Rican DEA office continued to protect him, mainly
from the FBI, which was trying to arrest him on the San
Francisco indictment. In 1990, in response to an FBI
request for help, the DEA's Costa Rican attache, Ron Lard,
described Meneses as a "very valuable and current active
DEA source in Costa Rica." The San Francisco FBI
reacted furiously. In February 1990, it demanded to know
when the DEA had suddenly discovered Meneses'
amazing worth—before or after the FBI had indicted him?
"San Francisco FBI would not have pursued an indictment
of Meneses if it had been aware of Meneses' cooperation
with any law enforcement or intelligence agency," the FBI
cable complained. "Did DEA conduct appropriate checks
to determine Meneses' legal status prior to [activating]
him?"
Oops, the DEA replied. Our mistake. Norwin was no
longer an active DEA informant and, once again, no one
knew where he was. One FBI agent complained that he
"did not believe that the DEA in Costa Rica, or the Costa
Rican authorities, would arrest Meneses."
As to what he was doing and why the DEA was so
protective of him, the Justice Department Inspector
General's report in 1998 provided a significant clue: among
Norwin's targets were "some Nicaraguan government
officials." Norwin, it seems, was still fighting Communism
with cocaine. Though combat between the Contras and
Sandinistas all but ceased in March 1988 with the truce of

===== PDF PAGE 621 =====
Sapoa, the CIA continued its covert war to destabilize the
Sandinista government throughout the rest of the decade,
and it now appears that Norwin Meneses was a part of the
U.S. government's arsenal of secret weapons.
In 1990 a Nicaraguan public weary of a decade of war
and strife and tension with the United States voted the
Sandinistas out of office. With U.S. backing, Norwin's
former business partner, Violeta Chamorro, was elected
president, and she immediately began returning to
Anastasio Somoza's friends and relatives the companies
and properties that the Sandinistas had confiscated.
Meneses and his family moved hack into their mansion
on the outskirts of Managua, and he began reclaiming the
holdings—valued at $12 million—that had once belonged
to him and his assassinated brother, Edmundo.
Norwin also began reconstructing his drug trafficking
network in Nicaragua, a riskier business. Even though the
Sandinistas were no longer running the government, they
still controlled the country's military and national police. If
they caught him dealing cocaine, he'd be at the mercy of
his old enemies.
To cover his bets, Norwin recruited a turncoat Sandinista
intelligence officer, Enrique Miranda Jaime, to help him
reestablish his smuggling pipeline through Nicaragua. It
was a move that would prove to be his undoing.
A slippery character who was a lifelong Sandinista,
Enrique Miranda had been a paid CIA informant between
1984 and 1985, spying on his comrades and peeking into
shipping crates to keep the agency up to date on the latest
Sandinista weapons purchases. He says he was one of
two CIA operatives working inside the Sandinista Ministry
of the Interior's super-secret dirty-tricks unit, the Bureau of
Special Operations.

===== PDF PAGE 622 =====
In addition to having extensive political connections,
Miranda was an experienced smuggler in his own right.
During the early years of the Contra war, Miranda said, he
was responsible for arranging clandestine shipments of
Sandinista arms from Panama to revolutionary groups
throughout Central America, and he had helped the
Sandinistas design a string of secret arms caches in and
around Managua—fortified concrete bunkers hidden in
hillsides and in dense patches of jungle. As a result, he not
only knew most of the smuggling routes through the isthmus
but had places to hide cocaine that few people even knew
existed.
In interviews with Nicaraguan police in 1991, Meneses
corroborated many details of Miranda's past. He said
Miranda, who is married to a cousin of Norwin's wife,
Blanca, had been a friend of his for a decade, and he
confirmed that Miranda "was the person who was sending
guns to the FMLN in El Salvador." He also confirmed that
Miranda "sold himself to the CIA" and provided the agency
with intelligence on Sandinista leaders. The CIA refused to
confirm or deny that.
In 1989 Meneses hired the former double agent to serve
as his emissary to the Colombians, primarily the cartel of
Bogota. Posing as Norwin's nephew, Miranda said he
arranged the drug shipments, plotted the routes, and
handled the cash deliveries, while Meneses negotiated
prices, put up the money to finance the purchases, and
arranged for the cocaine's transportation from Nicaragua to
the United States.
Most of the cocaine they were shipping, Miranda said,
was being sold in Los Angeles through Meneses's brother
Luis Enrique, who was later convicted in Nicaragua of drug
trafficking. In San Francisco, Miranda said, Norwin was

===== PDF PAGE 623 =====
dealing through his nephews, Guillermo and Jairo. The
drugs were being smuggled into California through two
different routes. Meneses "had on his payroll a series of
American pilots and had taken charge of a control tower in
the state of Texas," Miranda testified. Norwin's cargo
planes, based in Costa Rica, had established flight plans to
haul commercial goods to Texas. Before they left, Miranda
said, a space would be cleared in the cargo hold big
enough to conceal 300 kilos of cocaine. "When overflying
their route to the U.S.A., they would be allowed to drop in
for a quick landing at the airstrip at Rosita," he testified,
referring to a 2,600-meter runway in the isolated jungles of
northern Nicaragua, near the mining town of Rosita.
At the abandoned airfield, according to Miranda,
Meneses had hundreds of kilos of cocaine hidden in
underground bunkers. The kilos would be loaded aboard
the cargo planes and hidden amidst the commercial cargo,
and the planes would continue on into Texas. "This
operation would last approximately 15 or 20 minutes,"
Miranda said. "The advantage is that here in Nicaragua
there is no radar system with the capacity to reach this
airstrip."
The other method was equally inventive. Meneses would
purchase automobiles in the United States through a
dealership, import them, fill their frames and hollow spaces
with cocaine-filled PVC pipes, and weld them shut inside.
Then the cars were loaded aboard an auto transporter—
also packed with tubes of cocaine—and driven across the
border in Texas or California. "For the amounts that were
coming in, you almost needed flatbed trucks," recalled
Meneses lieutenant Rafael Cornejo.
Blandón said his first job once he got back into the
California drug market was serving as a broker for Norwin's

===== PDF PAGE 624 =====
nephew, Jairo, in San Francisco. He collected cocaine
from hotel rooms all over the Bay Area and sold it to
customers in Alabama, New Orleans, Los Angeles, San
Jose, and San Francisco. At least two of Blandón's biggest
customers, Mike Smith in L.A. and Reggie Rash in
Alabama, were black dealers who'd worked for Ricky Ross
before Ross went to prison.
Then Blandón had another well-timed series of lucky
breaks. Jairo was arrested and sent to jail; Jose Gonzalez
moved back to Nicaragua; and the only experienced
distributor left was Danilo Blandón. He took on the job of
doling out cocaine to the other members of the Meneses
ring and some of their Bay Area customers. Between 1990
and 1991, Blandón estimated, he provided somewhere
around 425 kilos of cocaine to the Meneses family in San
Francisco, about $8.5 million worth at wholesale prices.
Blandón also began putting his L.A. connections back
together. Though he was reasonably sure the Torres
brothers had ratted him out to the cops four years earlier—
and they knew he'd hired a hit man to kill them after he
became convinced that one of them was sleeping with his
wife—the old friends let bygones be bygones and started
buying and selling drugs from each other again.
Rafael Cornejo recalled visiting the Torres brothers in
North Hollywood with Blandón in 1990, where Jacinto
offered to sell him a chrome-plated .45. "There was a fight
on TV and Danilo and I went over there to watch it. I was
staying at a hotel. . .that's when I first met the Torres
brothers. And he [Blandón] was working with them and to
my belief he was involved with narcotics with them at that
time. He offered some to me but I didn't take the offer. He
told me he was back trying to open up the gates again that
he had lost."

===== PDF PAGE 625 =====
Blandón said Cornejo was very "picky" about cocaine
quality and deemed the kilos Blandón offered substandard.
Though Cornejo said he never liked Blandón personally—"
he always had an agenda"—he valued his experience and
his connections and began dealing with him on an almost
daily basis. "Sometimes, you know, you gotta dance with
the devil," Cornejo shrugged. "Danilo knew some very
important people in Nicaragua, important people in society,
and I was talking about taking my money and moving down
there, you know, taking my assets and starting a business.
And he told me he would use his connections with the
World Bank to help me out." Whether Blandón actually had
any connections to the World Bank is unknown, but
undercover DEA tapes show that he was openly boasting
of having received massive loans around that time from the
Canadian government and, according to one DEA
summary, the U.S. government.
Those discussions were secretly taped between 1990
and 1991 by DEA informant John Arman, a skinny, nasal-
voiced drug dealer who'd been indicted in Nebraska in the
early 1980s for cocaine trafficking and fled to Mexico. The
Mexicans booted him out eventually, turning him over to FBI
agents at the border, and Arman agreed to become an
informant for the DEA office in San Diego.
He was one of the first people Blandón contacted when
he reentered the southern California cocaine market,
apparently due to a long-standing friendship with Arman's
ex-wife. In March 1990, a week after the Sandinistas were
voted out of office, Arman called San Diego DEA agent
Charles Jones and told him that "Blandón is preparing to
move back to Nicaragua from Miami, due to the favorable
political climate at present. Blandón also reportedly had a
large amount of cash in Los Angeles, California, that he

===== PDF PAGE 626 =====
was preparing to transport to Nicaragua." Arman reported
that Blandón "owned property in Nicaragua that he rented
to the government for $100,000 for five years," and was so
tight with the new regime, he'd told Arman, he'd take him to
the upcoming inauguration of Nicaragua's new president,
Violeta Chamorro.
"Yeah, I know all the people from the government,"
Blandón boasted in one taped conversation with Arman.
"They 
like
 you, see? Shit, they like you, all the fucking
government—they know."
Blandón wasn't just bragging. A DEA informant who had
worked for Blandón informed federal agents in 1991 that
the drug dealer "had extensive contacts in the Nicaraguan
government and obtains cocaine from the Cali cartel on
credit."
In July 1990, Blandón flew back to Miami to deal with his
failing rental car company and returned to L.A. a few days
later. Arman met him up at the airport, where an expansive
Blandón announced that he'd just received a $40 million
loan to build houses in Nicaragua.
On the drive to San Diego, Blandón killed time by filling
Arman in on his latest cocaine deals. His supplier,
Humberto Cardona, was now in France and was looking to
cross 2,000 kilos he'd stored in Guadalajara, Mexico. A
Canadian associate was bringing in a load from Mexico
through Houston. Some of his Japanese customers had the
bad luck of buying a boatload of cocaine in Colombia, and
then having the trawler tracked and seized off the coast of
Hawaii.
Arman dropped Blandón off at the Nicaraguan's hilltop
home in Bonita, a few miles from the Mexican border, and
they made plans to meet for dinner later that evening.
Shortly before 7:30 
P.M.
 on July 21, 1990, Arman arrived at

===== PDF PAGE 627 =====
the Old Bonita Store, a quaint lobster restaurant near
Blandón's house, wired for sound. He was accompanied by
undercover DEA agent Judy Gustafson, who was posing as
a money launderer interested in doing business with
Blandón and his friend Sergio Guerra, the parking lot
magnate. Blandón rolled up fifteen minutes later behind the
wheel of a silver Mercedes 450 SL, Guerra at his side.
The four made chitchat for a while—Guerra asked the
DEA agent if she'd ever snorted methamphetamine—and
then Blandón motioned Arman outside so they could
discuss something privately. If Arman was looking to sell,
Blandón said, he had customers looking for about 200
kilos. If he could get more, they'd buy that too.
"These people have been working with me 10 years,"
Blandón informed him. "I've sold them about 2,000 or
4,000,I don't know. I don't remember how many."
"It ain't that Japanese guy you were talking about, is it?"
Arman asked.
"The Japanese? You know him?"
"No, you told me."
"No," Blandón insisted. "No, it's not him. These. . .these
are the black people."
"Black?!"
"Yeah," Blandón replied. "They control L.A. The people
that control L.A."
"I don't like niggers," Arman fretted.
"Well. . ."
"They pay cash though?"
"Yeah," Blandón said. "They pay cash."
"Can they come up with enough money to buy 50 at one
time?"
"Yes."
"Oooh," Arman shivered. "That scares me, you know

===== PDF PAGE 628 =====
that?"
"No, no. Don't worry. I don't do with anybody else, just
with black people," Blandón reassured him. "The thing is,
with these people, you are making [money] every day or
every week. They're all there. You don't have to be worried
about nothing. You don't have to pay warehouses, because
the warehouse would be only one day, you see?"
Arman told Blandón he'd see what he could do, and they
returned to the table, where Arman pressed the Nicaraguan
for details on his new housing project.
"What were you doing. . .what was the deal, you're doing
some building, planning on doing some building, some
houses down in. . .?"
"Nicaragua."
"Nicaragua?"
"I get a loan from the Canadian government, $40 million,
for 5,000 houses," Blandón said.
"Like mass housing, neighborhood. . ."
"For the poor people, the poor people. You know, the
government of Canada, they sometimes have, it's better for
them, for construction, to give us 5,000 houses, a
government loan for three years, you pay 3 ½ % per year. .
."
"Then they get a United States company to. . .?"
"Well," Blandón said, "we will be supervising, see? Then
they will build the house in Canada, how you say,
prefabricated. . ."
Blandón also mentioned that he was due to receive a $1
million settlement from the U.S. government for some
unspecified claim.
Arman steered the conversation to Roger Sandino, the
Mencses associate wanted by the DEA in connection with
the giant Bolivian drug bust in Virginia in 1986. Laughing,

===== PDF PAGE 629 =====
Blandón told the group how Sandino had a planeload of
cocaine flown into Nicaragua, but the plane belly-flopped on
a dirt field near a small town. The crash was swarmed by
local peasants, who carted away much of the dope. "The
people, the 
campesinos
, they found it and they were selling
it at the market—10 dollars, 20 dollars a fucking key!"
Blandón chuckled. He said that when a horrified Sandino
discovered the situation, he flew down from Miami and
frantically tried to buy his remaining cocaine back from the
peasants.
Nicaraguan aviation records show the airplane, loaded
with 1,000 pounds of coke, crash-landed near San Rafael
del Sur on June 4, 1990. The pilot, who was arrested, was
a captain in the Colombian Air Force.
For the next two years the San Diego DEA would keep a
close eye on Blandón, recording his telephone calls,
tracking his movements, videotaping his meetings with
informants and his negotiations to buy cocaine. They would
hear him confess to many crimes and brag "about having
customers in New York, San Francisco, Los Angeles, New
Orleans and other locations." But even after being informed
that Blandón was back in South Central L.A., once again
selling massive amounts of cocaine to "leaders of black
gangs," the DEA made no move to arrest him.
"Blandón stated that one of the groups that he supplied
cocaine to were black gang members in Los Angeles that
didn't care about the quality of cocaine because they were
going to convert it to crack anyway," a 1991 DEA report
stated laconically. On the tape of that conversation,
Blandón and Arman can be heard commiserating over the
decline in standards in the cocaine business. A kilo of

===== PDF PAGE 630 =====
"beautiful" white flake meant nothing to these crack
dealers, Blandón lamented. "They don't care. They, they,
they, they cook everything."
The investigation of Blandón crept along at a snail's pace
until July 1991, when Texas DEA agents finally nailed
longtime fugitive Roger Sandino, who was tooling along
outside Piano, Texas, with fifty-four kilos of cocaine in his
car. The feds took him to Dallas for a detention hearing,
shipped him to Oklahoma City, and indicted him, and within
two weeks the San Diego DEA had him working the
phones, making tape-recorded calls to Blandón in an effort
to set him up for a reverse sting.
But Blandón's intelligence network was as good as ever.
During one conversation, Sandino suggested that they do a
deal with a certain couple in Miami. Blandón's voice
suddenly hardened. "They are going to put you in jail, dumb
fuck, but quickly," he said.
"Are they, are they working for the police?"
"Yes," Blandón said evenly. "They are the ones who
fucked Jairo."
Sandino's suggestion apparently prompted Blandón to
do a little checking up on his old friend. A few days later,
Blandón called and asked Sandino to explain the
circumstances behind his recent legal troubles in
Oklahoma City. Sandino hurriedly made up a story about
getting busted after an auto accident of no consequence.
He insisted that everything was fine and encouraged
Blandón to come to San Diego to complete a cocaine
transaction they had discussed. Blandón assured him he
would be there, but never arrived. He also quit returning
Sandino's calls. Four days later, on August 16, 1991, the
DEA admitted defeat. Blandón had once again beaten the
narcs at their own game. "The investigation," a DEA report

===== PDF PAGE 631 =====
stated, "had been compromised."
"At first I thought it was just a keen sense of paranoia, but
now I believe that he [Blandón] was tipped off," said a
federal prosecutor who worked on the case. Fie declined to
say whom he suspected. But one of the agents assigned to
the Blandón investigation, INS agent Robert Tellez, wasn't
as reticent. "Intelligence information provided should be
highly protected," Tellez wrote in a memo in February 1991.
"This major cocaine traffickers [sic] may have had a degree
of influence from the CIA."
When DEA agent Jones drove out the next morning to
collect Sandino from the Chula Vista hotel where they had
him holed up, he found an empty room. Just as he had
done in Virginia five years earlier, Sandino had given the
DEA the slip. He fled to Nicaragua "as a result of the
pressure of cooperating," a DEA report stated.
The DEA refused to explain why it left unattended a
federal fugitive who had just been captured after five years
on the lam, or what attempts it had made, if any, to
recapture him.
"He had a big wedding here a couple years ago out at
the Montelimar resort," said Roger Mayorga, the
Nicaraguan government's former antidrug czar, in 1997. "If
the DEA wanted Roger Sandino he is very easy to find.
They never asked us to arrest him, I can tell you that."
Just ten days after Sandino's disappearance, the federal
government was presented with another golden opportunity
to arrest Blandón. Once again, though, it declined. While on
a trip to Tijuana on August 26, 1991, Blandón and Sergio
Guerra stopped at the checkpoint on the international
border in Guerra's silver Mercedes, and U.S. Customs
inspector Phillip Lemon asked Guerra if he had more than
$10,000 on him. The Mexican said no.

===== PDF PAGE 632 =====
"How much do you have?" Lemon asked.
"About $100," Guerra answered.
Eyeing the $35,000 car and the expensive clothing the
men were wearing, Lemon told them to pull over to the side
for a vehicle inspection.
The Mercedes was a giant piggy bank. In the glove
compartment, Customs agent Douglas Montone
discovered $2,700 in cash rolled up with a rubber band.
The trunk produced $110,550 in bank money orders and
$1,300 in cash in a black bag. Guerra had $490 in his
wallet and a second search of the trunk revealed an
additional $2,000 in money orders. The money orders were
blank and had been purchased within the past week.
Asked why he was driving around with a small fortune in
his trunk, Guerra babbled that "he docs not have a safe and
he uses his two Mercedes Benzes in lieu of a safe deposit
box to store his valuables." In truth, the money wasn't
Guerra's. It was Blandón's. "The money orders were on
their way to Mexico as a partial payment for cocaine," said
Assistant U.S. Attorney L. J. O'Nealc, who handled the
case. Blandón had sent three of his assistants out to snap
up 339 money orders, O'Neale said, because he'd
"overloaded the delivery systems" of his cocaine suppliers
with cash. After dumping $900,000 on them a few days
earlier, O'Neale said, Blandón had been instructed to "hold
off on the cash."
While a cursory check of the Customs database would
have revealed that Blandón was a known cocaine trafficker
and Guerra had no criminal record, it was Guerra who was
arrested and indicted by a federal grand jury on two felony
counts. He also had his Mercedes seized. Blandón was
briefly questioned and released.
By Christmas, he would be three for three. In late

===== PDF PAGE 633 =====
December 1991 a special LAPD strike force arrested him
and two other men on charges of money laundering and
conspiracy after they caught him with $14,000 and a small
amount of cocaine in his pocket. Blandón had been seen
leaving the apartment of his old friend Raul "El Tuerto"
Vega, the one-eyed Meneses flunky who'd helped break
Blandón in when he started dealing coke for the Contras. In
Vega's apartment, police found $350,000 in cash, a
miraculous amount for a man who claimed to be a
warehouse worker.
Then the LAPD got a call from the U.S. Attorney's Office
in San Diego, asking that all the charges be dropped.
Federal agents were working on an investigation, the
police were told, which would be ruined if Blandón was put
in jail. When the trafficker appeared for his arraignment, he
was released without bail and the charges were
subsequently dismissed. Once again, he'd walked away
from an almost certain conviction. The federal prosecutor
who made that decision said he intervened to protect the
DEA's investigation of Blandón from a premature
termination. "It wasn't done as a favor to Blandón," he
insisted.
LAPD sergeant Ron Hodges heard a similar story while
working his own case against Blandón in 1991. Hodges, a
narcotics detective who was also looking into the Torres
brothers, was attempting to arrange a hand-to-hand sale
with Blandón, when he discovered that DEA agents were
following the Nicaraguan around. The DEA asked I lodges
to cooperate with their investigation, so he shelved his
case and relegated himself to helping the DEA tail Blandón
around L.A., surveilling his meetings with the Torres
brothers. "I actually had a better case against him if it would
have come about," Hodges said. "I think they just let him

===== PDF PAGE 634 =====
run."
In stark contrast to their U.S. counterparts, Nicaraguan
lawmen were onto Norwin Meneses from the moment they
learned the drug lord was back in Managua.
Rene Vivas, the chief of the Nicaraguan National Police,
and Commander Roger Mayorga, the head of its criminal
investigations section, were well acquainted with Norwin
and his family and the work they'd done for Somoza and the
Contras. Mayorga, a short, stocky man with hard eyes, had
been chief of state security in Meneses's hometown of
Esteli. Vivas, one of the earliest members of the Sandinista
underground, had known Norwin since his days as a
teenage informant for Somoza's secret police, through his
attempts to infiltrate anti-Somoza groups. They were itching
for a reason to arrest him. And they got one sooner than
they expected.
In November 1990 a white Volkswagen microbus was
putt-putting through Chiapas, Mexico, on its way to Los
Angeles when Mexican police pulled it over. Inside were
forty-two kilos of cocaine and a beautiful Nicaraguan airline
stewardess, Ivis Hernandez, who had been one of the
Sandinistas' fiercest urban guerrillas during the revolution,
known as "La Negra."
"She was something else," sighed Roberto Vargas, an
ex-Marine who fought with the Sandinistas and later
became their ambassador to China. "La Negra was part of
a special squad during the revolution that attacked National
Guard buildings. They were the worst missions—suicidal
almost—but oh my God, could she fight. I think every man
who met her fell in love with her."
Certainly Enrique Miranda had. At the time of her arrest,

===== PDF PAGE 635 =====
she and Miranda were lovers. And it was his microbus she
was driving. Roger Mayorga said the Mexican police told
him about the arrest, which they said resulted from a DEA
tip. Mayorga might want to look into it, they suggested,
because he could have a drug ring operating in Managua.
When Mayorga learned who owned the van and who was
driving it, he was intrigued. He knew Ivis Hernandez, and
she'd never struck him as a cocaine trafficker. Enrique
Miranda was a different story. Mayorga knew the kinds of
things he'd done during the war.
Mayorga dropped by Ivis's house and asked her mother,
who knew nothing of the arrest, if he could talk to Ivis. Her
daughter was in Mexico, she said, receiving some medical
treatment at the suggestion of her boyfriend, Enrique
Miranda. "So I went to see him and I challenged him and I
told him he was responsible for her arrest," Mayorga said.
"He was very nervous and he denied everything, but I could
tell. At that point, we decided to focus our investigation on
him."
Miranda unwittingly led the police to Frank Vigil, the
former advertising man who'd allegedly dealt cocaine with
Blandón in L.A. in the early 1980s and was Meneses's
partner in the Costa Rican chicken restaurant. Mayorga
learned that Vigil had just formed a new company in
Managua in partnership with a major Colombian drug
trafficker, Hector Roman Carvajal.
Mayorga saw from the incorporation papers that the
company, called PZP S.A. (for 
Processadora Zona
Pacifica
), had been put together by a prominent Somoza
lawyer, Adolpho Garcia Esquivel, a Nicaraguan
assemblyman who also served as one of Norwin
Meneses's lawyers. Among PZP's owners, the records
showed, was Luis Henry Pallais, the son of Somoza's

===== PDF PAGE 636 =====
closest political adviser, and Nicaraguan assemblyman
Frank Duarte, another longtime Somoza supporter who
headed the Assembly's antinarcotics committee. The
company, according to its records, planned to operate
fishing boats to export seafood to Taiwan.
Miranda was also seen making trips to a motel in the hills
overlooking Managua, the Auto Hotel Nejapa—one of a
strange breed of small Nicaraguan hostelries that allow
patrons to drive their cars into shielded carports and enter
their rooms unseen from the outside. Such hideaways are
usually used for trysts with hookers and mistresses. The
Hotel Nejapa, police learned, had once belonged to
General Edmundo Meneses. The Chamorro government
had recently returned it to the Meneses family, and it was
now being run by Norwin Meneses, business records
showed. The incorporator of the new hotel business was—
surprise—Somoza lawyer Garcia Esquivel, the
incorporator of PZP.
Mayorga surmised that Miranda was working for
Meneses and Frank Vigil, and he suspected they were
plotting to use the fishing company as a front for a cocaine
smuggling venture. In the summer of 1991, he said, his men
began following Meneses and his wife, Blanca Margarita.
One September evening Mrs. Meneses drove to a
restaurant near her house, the Lobster Inn, and got a table.
A few moments later, DEA agent Federico G. Villarreal
arrived. Hot on his heels was Norwin Meneses.
To the shock of the Nicaraguan police, Villarreal was
having dinner with Meneses and his wife. (Their shock
would have been greater had they known that Meneses, at
the time, was technically a fugitive from justice.) When his
men excitedly returned from the stakeout with their news,
Mayorga was dumbfounded. Villareal, the senior agent in

===== PDF PAGE 637 =====
the DEA's office in Costa Rica, had just met with Mayorga
to discuss the idea of the DEA starting a formal,
cooperative relationship with the Sandinista police. What
was he doing meeting with Nicaragua's top cocaine
trafficker in Mayorga's backyard? Behind Mayorga's back?
Running a clandestine operation in a foreign country
without informing the local authorities, Mayorga knew,
violated just about every DEA policy there was. Either
Villarreal was a friend of Meneses, which also violated
DEA policy, or the DEA and the drug kingpin were up to
something that the Nicaraguan National Police weren't
supposed to know about. Something here was very fishy.
Mayorga went to see his boss, Nicaraguan National
Police commander Rene Vivas, who shared his concerns.
Checking with sources in Costa Rica, they learned
Meneses and Villarreal had been seen together in San
Jose as well. There was definitely something going on
between Meneses and the Americans, they concluded. A
lid of secrecy was clamped on their investigation. No one
else in government, and especially not the DEA, would be
informed until after it was all over. Their agents were sworn
to absolute secrecy and given as little advance notice as
possible of upcoming operations.
The precautions paid off. On a Sunday morning in early
November 1991, Mayorga's men executed a series of
simultaneous raids on Meneses's drug ring. At the Quinta
Wichita, a small ranch ten miles south of Managua, they
caught Norwin's engineers in the act of welding cocaine-
filled PVC pipes into the frame of an auto transport trailer.
A couple of Mercedes sedans were in the process of
having the same alterations performed. They found 130
kilos there. In a bedroom in Miranda's mother's house, they
found hundreds more hidden under blankets with spare

===== PDF PAGE 638 =====
tires thrown on top. In an abandoned military bunker they
found more kilos, packed into air conditioner and television
boxes that bore the address of the Auto Hotel Nejapa.
In all, the Nicaraguan police seized 725 kilos of cocaine,
worth roughly $15 million wholesale. They also found Uzi
submachine guns, Makarov pistols, and California license
plates. Meneses, his brother Luis, Enrique Miranda, Frank
Vigil, and the engineers and craftsmen Norwin had hired to
prepare the vehicles were arrested.
(The auto transport trailer Meneses's men were busy
stuffing with cocaine had recently been purchased for
$125,000 in El Salvador from none other than former CIA
pilot Marcos Aguado. Aguado, who'd helped run the secret
Contra air base at Ilopango during the war, was not
charged in the connection with the case, and his
involvement was never publicly revealed. In an interview, he
denied knowing how Meneses would use the trailer,
although Miranda said he was present when Aguado and
Meneses discussed drug trafficking one evening at
Norwin's mansion.)
The Meneses drug bust was major news in Central
America. It was the largest cocaine seizure in Nicaragua's
history, and it prompted an uproar in the highly partisan
Nicaraguan press, as two prominent Nicaraguan politicians
were seemingly implicated. They were never charged.
The story made several U.S. newspapers as well.
Reporter Jonathan Marshall of the 
San Francisco
Chronicle—
who had just coauthored a book called
Cocaine Politics: Drugs, Armies and the CIA in Central
America—
wrote a detailed piece about Meneses and his
relationship with the FDN and its leaders. Marshall's story
also questioned the seeming inability of U.S. authorities to
capture the drug kingpin during the years he was living in

===== PDF PAGE 639 =====
America. The 
Chronicle
 buried the story deep inside the
paper, and it was ignored by the rest of the American
media, which was then consumed with the "scandal" over
Bush's chief of staff, John Sununu, using military planes for
personal trips.
Commander Vivas went to the Tipitapa prison outside
Managua to personally take charge of Meneses's
interrogation. He found the trafficker relaxed—almost
smug. "He said he wasn't worried about me because he
had the backing of a higher power, a superpower," Vivas
recalled. "He said he was working for the United States to
get Sandinista officials on drug charges, and that I was one
of his targets. I told him not to fuck with me because I didn't
believe him. I thought he was just trying to impress me. But
he insisted it was true and said I would find out for myself."
The evening of the raids, Mayorga called the Costa
Rican DEA office to inform Villarreal of the arrests, but
since it was Sunday no one was in. He stuck an arrest
report into the fax machine and zapped it to the U.S.
embassy in San Jose.
"Then, big surprise, I get to my office at 9 
A.M.
 Monday,
and Villarreal is there waiting for me," Mayorga grinned.
"He wants more information. I asked him what was his
special interest in this case?" After getting some evasive
answers, Mayorga said, he provided Villarreal with the
basic facts and waited for the American to tell him about
Meneses's relationship with the DEA. Nothing was said.
Villarreal came back later looking for more information.
By then, Mayorga said, "we'd had a chance to analyze the
phone book that we had found on Norwin when we arrested
him, and inside were phone numbers for Ronald Lard, the
DEA country attache in Costa Rica. I challenged Villarreal
to explain this, and he couldn't."

===== PDF PAGE 640 =====
Then Mayorga told the DEA agent that his men had seen
him dining with Meneses less than two weeks before the
raid. Why, Mayorga asked, was the DEA secretly meeting
in Managua with a drug trafficker who was in the process of
bringing 725 kilos of cocaine into his country? And why
hadn't the Nicaraguan police been informed? Villareal
simply lied, denying that he'd met with the drug kingpin. He
told Justice Department inspectors that he "did not believe
he knew the [Nicaraguan] police well enough to share that
information." Actually, Mayorga only knew half the story.
Villareal had met with Meneses two or three times in
Managua, not just once, yet Villareal claims he can't
remember what those discussions concerned or if
Meneses became his informant afterwards. In the end,
Villareal placated Mayorga by providing him with some
intelligence reports of Meneses' criminal activities in the
U.S., but Mayorga described the DEA's assistance as
minimal and grudging.
It had been Meneses, Mayorga learned, who'd tipped off
the DEA to the trip Ivis Hernandez was taking in the
cocaine-laden microbus. The cocaine Hernandez was
taking north was not Norwin's, he said; it was Frank Vigil's.
He theorized that Meneses ratted out the shipment to allay
the DEA's concerns that he was dealing on the side.
"Villarreal made it clear to me that they did not completely
trust Meneses," Vivas said. "He made me understand that
Meneses was playing both sides."
Armed with that information, Mayorga paid Enrique
Miranda a visit. He reminded him of his earlier denials
regarding his girlfriend, and Miranda morosely admitted
"having abused his relationship with her," Mayorga said.
"Then he asked me why the police had stopped her car in
the first place. How did they find out?"

===== PDF PAGE 641 =====
It was your boss, Mayorga told him. Norwin. He'd told the
DEA. And now your girlfriend is in jail in Mexico,
undergoing God-knows-what humiliations. How's that for
loyalty? Miranda repaid it in kind. He started talking. "We
used Norwin's cooperation with the DEA to get Miranda to
cooperate with us," Mayorga said.
Combining the information provided by Miranda,
Villarreal, and Meneses, the Nicaraguan police pieced
together a picture of what Meneses and the DEA were
working on. Meneses, they believed, had been sent to
Nicaragua on a secret DEA mission to snare high-ranking
Sandinista military officials in a drug sting. The first person
Meneses had approached was Commandante Bayardo
Arce Castano, a cousin of Meneses's wife Blanca and one
of the most influential of the nine Sandinista leaders.
According to Meneses, Arce agreed to participate in a
cocaine deal, and he offered to provide the protection of
the Sandinista military. Arce admitted that Meneses had
come to see him but denied making any drug deals.
Meneses's lawyers, who tried unsuccessfully to force
Arce to testify, dug up some evidence to support their
client's claim. According to affidavits they gathered from
eyewitnesses, the Colombian airplane carrying the 725
kilos of cocaine had been met at the Rosita airstrip by a
Sandinista army truck, which was loaded with boxes from
the airplane. Two Sandinista army officers supervised the
unloading, the witnesses said.
But when the Nicaraguan police arrested the DEA's sting
man, Norwin Meneses, the operation was blown wide open
and Meneses' American handlers left him to twist in the
wind. According to two Nicaraguan prison officials, soon
after his arrest Meneses gave his wife Blanca a letter to
deliver to the U.S. Embassy, addressed to two American

===== PDF PAGE 642 =====
officials, asking them to intercede with the Chamorro
government. The sources were unaware if the letter was
answered.
The DEA denies there was any such plan but those
denials are hard to believe in light of some of the cables
released by the CIA's Inspector General in 1998. Both the
State Department and the Department of Defense, the CIA
report revealed, were monitoring Meneses' movements at
the time. "Those reports included reference to a trip to
Colombia by Meneses and Miranda in September 1991
and to the group's loss of a Ford Escort 'loaded with
cocaine' in Houston in September 1991," the CIA report
stated. Why those agencies would be so interested in
Meneses then is not explained in the declassified version
of the CIA report.
Had the sting worked, the resultant drug scandal would
almost certainly have crippled the last vestiges of
Sandinista power in the new Nicaraguan government: their
control of the military and the police. President Violeta
Chamorro was being subjected to intense pressure to
purge her government of Sandinistas by conservatives in
Washington, particularly Senator Jesse Helms of North
Carolina, whose staff had been intimately involved in the
creation and funding of the Contra movement. Helms was
then stalling a $50 million foreign aid bill for Nicaragua over
the continued presence of Sandinistas—particularly Rene
Vivas—in the national police and military.
The 1991 Meneses operation, in all likelihood, was
simply another version of the 1984 DEA/CIA sting involving
trafficker Barry Seal, which the Reagan administration had
used to accuse the Sandinistas of drug trafficking right
before a crucial Contra aid vote. Had Meneses been
successful, the Sandinistas would have been loudly

===== PDF PAGE 643 =====
denounced as drug dealers by the Bush administration—
which already had a history of invading Latin American
countries run by unfriendly traffickers—and might have
been forced out of the Chamorro government.
At Norwin's trial in August 1992, Miranda took the stand
against his former boss and bared all, explaining Norwin's
relationship with the DEA and the Contras, the drug flights
from El Salvador to Texas, and the meetings with CIA pilot
Aguado and CIA agent Enrique Bermúdez, the FDN's
former military commander. "Norwin even arranged a party
in his residence for Bermúdez, celebrating his possible
appointment as Army Chief by the new government,"
Miranda testified. "I also took part in meetings where
Norwin Meneses and Bermúdez discussed the possibility
to use the Army to send drug loads to the U.S. and Europe.
. .but these plans were truncated by Bermúdez's sudden
death."
Bermúdez had been murdered in the parking lot of the
Intercontinental Hotel in Managua in February 1991 by
someone who shot him in the back of the head. The slaying
was never solved.
Meneses denied everything. The cocaine wasn't his, he
insisted. It belonged to drug-dealing Sandinistas—Rene
Vivas, Roger Mayorga, and Bayardo Arce. He claimed the
Sandinistas had set up him and his brother on phony drug
charges as "revenge" for their years of assistance to the
FDN. "I was an important part of the FDN since 1982. And
they [the Sandinistas] proclaimed themselves as my mortal
enemies in 1984," he testified. Meneses blamed the
Sandinistas for planting false stories about him in
American and Costa Rican newspapers and pointed to his
spotless record as proof that he was no criminal.
"I have never been arrested in the United States and in

===== PDF PAGE 644 =====
any other part of the world. I've never been the subject of a
court trial. I've never been subpoenaed as a witness,"
Meneses testified. "I have been mentioned by some other
people in some other cases, but that's because of the long
arm of 
Sandinismo
."
The Nicaraguan judges were bothered by Meneses's
lack of a criminal record, court transcripts show, and they
challenged Roger Mayorga on his public declarations that
Meneses was "the king of drugs" in Nicaragua, and his
country's representative to the Cali cartel. "How do you
explain the fact that Norwin Meneses, implicated since
1974 in the trafficking of drugs, and where an arrest warrant
exists issued by a court in San Francisco in the United
States, has not been detained in the United States, a
country in which he has lived, entered and departed many
times since 1974?" one judge asked Mayorga.
"Well, that question needs to be asked to the authorities
of the United States because I'm limited to the information
that was supplied to us by. . .the DEA," Mayorga said stiffly.
"Explain then, that after 22 years, you have not been
asked on the part of the anti-narcotics police in the U.S. to
arrest the Nicaraguan citizen Norwin Meneses for drugs, if
he has resided for much time in the United States and
Nicaragua? He was very easy to find in the United States
because of his residency card, and in Nicaragua, because
he's highly well-known."
"With respect to his residence in the United States, in the
previous answer I explained ignorance as to why the
authorities in the United States had not stopped him,"
Mayorga testily replied. "With respect to Nicaragua, be
clear that this Meneses had a year and a half in Nicaragua.
. .and in the year and a half he was captured for drug
trafficking."

===== PDF PAGE 645 =====
Meneses was convicted and sentenced to thirty years in
jail. As a result of his cooperation, Miranda was given a
seven-year sentence. A few days after the trial, Nicaraguan
prison authorities reported that Meneses had paid a
deranged inmate $10,000 to knife Miranda in revenge for
his damning testimony. Meneses denied it, but Miranda
was quickly transferred to a prison in another city.
After a lifetime of crime and the ruination of countless
lives, Norwin Meneses was finally behind bars. Almost
single-handedly, an underpaid, middle-aged Nicaraguan
policeman had, in eighteen months, done something that
the entire U.S. government—with its spy satellites,
international wiretapping capabilities, and an army of drug
agents—had been unable to do for twenty years. Three
weeks after the verdicts came down, under pressure from
the U.S. State Department and the White House, the
Chamorro government fired Rene Vivas as Nicaraguan
National Police commander.
Roger Mayorga, who by then had begun looking into
Danilo Blandón's relationship with the Meneses drug ring
and its money-laundering tendrils in Central America, was
fired soon afterwards. Meneses, meanwhile, was released
from prison in 1997, having served only six years of his
sentence. That same year, his and Blandón's suspected
money launderer, Orlando Murillo, was elected to the
Nicaraguan National Assembly.

===== PDF PAGE 646 =====
24

===== PDF PAGE 647 =====
"They're gonna forget I was a drug
dealer"
I
n the summer of 1992, as one drug potentate, Norwin
Meneses, was settling into the dreary Tipitapa prison,
another, Ricky Ross, was preparing to rejoin society.
Freeway Rick had done his time carefully at Phoenix,
learning the basics of reading and writing, obtaining his
high school equivalency certificate. He became a
vegetarian and a devotee of self-help guru Anthony J.
Robbins, whose motivational tapes Ross listened to
incessantly.
He had a plan for the rest of his life, and ever the
promotional genius, he used his notoriety as one of L.A.'s
biggest crack dealers to jump-start his plan. In the wake of
the nightmarish riots in South Central that April, which had
fleetingly focused the nation's press on the problems of
inner-city neighborhoods, Ross had begun granting
interviews to reporters searching for reasons for the area's
self-destruction. In quick succession, Ross was interviewed
by CBS News, the 
Cincinnati Post, Esquire
 magazine,
ABC News, and NBC News. Freeway Rick was an instant
hit with the press. He was accessible and self-effacing. He
answered reporters' questions directly and made sense.
He would open up his prison records to anyone who asked
and was disarmingly honest about the crimes he'd
committed.
"Soft-spoken, dressed in sweats and sporting shoulder-
length dreadlocks, Ross hardly seems like a man who
spent about four years in prison for drug trafficking," an 
LA.
Times
 reporter wrote in 1993.
Asked by 
The Cincinnati Post
 if he'd ever felt regret

===== PDF PAGE 648 =====
when he was dealing cocaine, Ross said the feeling was
just the opposite: "I felt I'd accomplished something. I'm a
money-maker. A capitalist."
He not only made great copy, but his story had a terrific
hook.
The final real estate acquisition he'd made before his
arrest in 1989 was a huge abandoned theater at the
intersection of Adams and Crenshaw boulevards in the
heart of South Central. In its heyday, the 40,000-square-foot
Adams Street Theater had been a major venue for touring
R&B and Motown artists. Ross dreamed of restoring the
dilapidated hulk to its former grandeur, becoming an
impresario, and leaving a permanent mark on South
Central. "One of the times I had met Danilo in New York I
had went to the Apollo Theater and I saw what they was
doing there, and I said that this would be a perfect idea for
Los Angeles to reach out to the kids in my community,"
Ross said.
When he got out of prison, Ross told the reporters, he
was going to make up for the damage he'd done to his
neighborhood. He'd learned his lesson, he said. He'd
destroyed lives. As his penance, he was going to take his
last remaining drug profits and put them to good use,
turning the old theater into a youth center for the children of
South Central.
It would have a gymnasium, classrooms, recording
studios, computer training rooms, and a performance hall. It
would be a place where kids "could go and entertain
because, you know, rap is big in my neighborhood. Most of
the big rappers came from my area, where I grew up at. So
I said, 'Well, we could do something like the Apollo Theater,
give them a place where they can go and perform.' And
then also, it would give the ones that's not performing a

===== PDF PAGE 649 =====
place to go and see what was going on, and we could also
reach out and start giving them messages about how to
deal with life because if you don't have something to
interest the kids then they won't pay you no attention."
Ross was released from federal prison in August 1993
and returned home to South Central, moving into his
mother's house and throwing himself into the theater
project, which he was calling the Freeway Academy. He
began making the rounds of local community groups and
politicians, trying to raise money for the renovations, which
his pro bono architectural consultants estimated at $18.5
million.
His efforts got a major boost in November 1993, when
his quest to fund the Freeway Academy broke into the
national media. First, the 
Los Angeles Times
 published a
flattering profile under the headline "Ex-Drug Dealer Out to
Stage Turnaround."
"Standing on the bare stage of the cavernous Adams
Street Theater, his arms spread wide as if receiving a
benediction, Ricky Ross speaks fervently of the second
chance in life he never thought he would get," the story
began. "Once the head of one of Los Angeles' most
notorious cocaine rings that did business nationwide, Ross
has embarked on a venture that he is determined will be
just as big: helping youths."
"Young people have no safety valve these days that
allows them to express themselves, develop their talents,"
Ross advised the newspaper. "Look at what happened to
me. I had a lot of talent, but I never even read a book until I
got to jail. I don't want other kids to end up there before
they've even gotten a chance to do something."
The pastor of a nearby church told the paper that he'd
been impressed when Ross addressed his congregation

===== PDF PAGE 650 =====
about his plans. "It's a blessing he wants to turn over a new
leaf," the minister said.
Spurred by the 
L.A. Times
 story, the ABC News
magazine 
Day One
 aired its own story on Freeway Rick, a
piece it had had in the can for several months. It appeared
right after Monday Night Football. "Next we have the story
of a young man who set out to poison his entire
community," correspondent Forrest Sawyer began, calling
Ross "one of America's most powerful drug dealers."
"He lives in South Central Los Angeles and he was the
area's biggest cocaine dealer," Sawyer intoned. "I say
'was' because today Ross claims he has changed his
ways. He says he wants to make up for all the harm he's
done by building something good for his neighborhood.
Some people believe he really means it. Others say it's just
a scam. Either way, Freeway's story proves that when
you've been a major player in America's crime crisis, going
straight is never easy."
Sawyer interviewed narcotics detectives and
prosecutors who were openly skeptical of Ross's scheme,
saying they doubted he'd ever straighten up. Ross was just
trying to buy respectability, they charged, conning the
community he'd been destroying for years. Sawyer also
interviewed L.A. politicians who were working with Ross to
raise the funds, and a representative of the Haagen-Dazs
company, who said the ice cream maker had already
agreed to pitch in.
Ross admitted to Sawyer that he didn't have much cash
and he agreed that he could easily return to drug dealing to
raise it. "Probably quicker than I used to make it because
I'm smarter now," he said. But he insisted he wasn't going
down that road again.
"What do you want to be remembered as?" Sawyer

===== PDF PAGE 651 =====
asked him at the close of the piece.
"As the guy that built this great youth center in South
Central Los Angeles, in the middle of where all the riots
broke out," Ross answered. "The guy that really made an
impact in the community, that changed lives. That's what I
want to be remembered as. That's what I 
will
 be
remembered as. They're going to forget I was a drug
dealer."
Though Ross could barely believe it himself, the Freeway
Academy project began gathering steam. In early
December 1993, a Los Angeles-based community group,
100 Black Men, held a dinner in Ross's honor, "and more
than 200 people filled the Regency West to make sure he
has the right backing to accomplish his task," the 
Los
Angeles Sentinel
 reported.
"Magic Johnson had came. He said he was going to
help. Ice Cube, Snoop Doggy Dogg, I mean, all the rappers
from L.A. that I had knew from the past said that they was
going to come out and help," Ross said. "I was like on just
another type of high, you know? I was going to churches
and doing speeches. . .. I was talking to the president of
Polygram Records, Ed Eckstein, who was talking about
giving me a record company."
But, as 
Day One
 had predicted, there was no escaping
his past. Shortly after the show appeared, Ross said,
Danilo Blandón called him out of the blue. He'd seen him on
TV, he told Ross, and was glad to hear he was out of jail
and doing so well.
It was the first time Ross had spoken to Blandón in four
years—not surprisingly, since drug dealers tend to shy
away from prisons—and Rick was happy to hear his
friend's voice again. Danilo said he and Chepita would love
to see him when he had the time. But there was another

===== PDF PAGE 652 =====
reason for his call, according to Ross: "He said he had a
great business and he needed my help. He wanted me to
talk to his wife and she could settle everything. He had a
connection for me and that it would be great like it used to
be. I told him that I was trying a movie, you know, I was
working on a book and I was out of the business. I didn't
know nobody."
Blandón confirmed calling Ross around this time but said
it was just a social call.
Ross said Chepita followed up by calling him up at the
youth center offices and insisting that he come have dinner
with them. They were having a get-together at her mother's
house in Glendale, she said, and the girls were dying to
see him. Ross agreed to go, but just to be on the safe side,
he took a friend with him, Norman Tillman, who was
working with former football star Jim Brown on similar youth
projects for South Central.
"So we go up to the house. She hugs me and tells me
she was glad I was out. Danilo loves me. She loves me.
Her daughters was there and a couple other people was
there," Ross said. "I liked their daughters. They was like my
little sisters."
But it was apparent that something was on Chepita's
mind, Ross said. She asked him to come outside with her
for a moment. "She started telling me that my friends had
lost a lot of money of Danilo's—Tone-Tone and Mike." Tony
McDonald and Mike Smith were two of Ross's successors
in South Central, picking up his accounts and buying from
Blandón while Ross was in jail. Chepita claimed they owed
Danilo $18,000 and had refused to pay it back, and now
the Colombians were pushing Danilo for the money, which
he didn't have. "She wanted me to find somebody to sell
some drugs to," Ross said. "I told her no. I didn't know

===== PDF PAGE 653 =====
nobody. I'd just gotten out of jail, you know, I'm trying to get
my life together, trying to stay away from the drugs."
Chepita, Ross said, told him she understood. But Danilo
called him later and wondered why Ross was refusing to
help him out. It wasn't like he was asking Ross to get back
into the drug business to make money, Blandón said. He
was asking as a friend, as a personal favor, to get the
Colombians off his back. It was Rick's friends who'd gotten
him into this mess, he pointed out.
"I told him I wasn't in the position," Ross said. "Basically, I
was telling him, 'You see what I'm doing, you know? You
saw me on TV. You've been reading the newspapers.' I
mean, he kept up with me all the way. He knew everything
about me, and he knew about me testifying against the
Sheriffs and everything. So I told him basically, 'You know
what I'm going through right now, you know, and I'm trying to
stay clean.'"
Ross felt bad about turning his back on Blandón, but he
didn't have much time to dwell on it. There was a little
matter in Texas that still needed attending to—his
indictment for calling his cousins and talking about a
cocaine deal on the phone. The Texas authorities were still
waiting for him to pay his debt to society.
Ross pleaded guilty to the Texas charges and reentered
prison in December 1993. He said he thought he would be
doing thirty days or so, but the weeks stretched into
months, and it wasn't until the end of August 1994 that he
was finally released from the Smith County jail in Tyler. 
L.A.
Times
 reporter Jesse Katz, who was working with a team
of reporters on a massive project to document the ravages
ten years of crack had wrought on L.A., was there to record
the scene: "The notorious Los Angeles drug lord known as
Freeway Rick, who once boasted that his coast-to-coast

===== PDF PAGE 654 =====
cocaine empire grossed more than $1 million a day,
walked out of a Texas jail Wednesday and vowed to return
home in search of redemption," Kate wrote. He described
the thirty-four-year-old parolee as "once one of the nation's
most prolific cocaine wholesalers," a dealer who "probably
rose faster and higher than any other drug trafficker from
the streets of South Central Los Angeles."
Ross, Katz wrote, "said he hoped to head back to his old
neighborhood as soon as possible and devote his life to
warning youngsters about the mistakes that kept him
locked up for most of the last five years."
After a short probation, Ross returned to South Central in
mid-October, a free man at last. His ten-month absence
had taken a toll on the Freeway Academy. It was out of
money, and the bills were piling up fast. To tide the project
over while he was serving his time in Texas, he'd borrowed
$30,000 from a Compton crack dealer, Leroy "Chico"
Brown, who was helping Ross put a recording studio in the
theater, but that money was just a memory. Ross had $57
to his name when he walked out of jail in Texas. His motel
and his auto parts store were gone; his remaining cash
was eaten up by attorney's fees. The rental houses he
owned, most of which had been placed in other people's
names, had been sold, foreclosed upon, or abandoned.
But $30,000 was $30,000, and Chico wanted his money
back.
He wasn't the only one. Blandón called from Nicaragua
the day after Ross got back into town. They needed to talk,
he told Ross, but he didn't want to do it over international
phone lines. He would be back in L.A. soon and wanted
Rick to call him from a pay phone. "He was telling me that
he needed help. Tone-Tone and them had beat him out of
the money and he wanted me to help him out," Ross said. "I

===== PDF PAGE 655 =====
told him I'd just got out of jail—I couldn't buy no drugs. I ain't
got no money to buy no drugs." Blandón denied making
that call.
For the first time in years, Freeway Rick was forced to
get a job—a real job—working for someone else. He was
hired on at Wolf River Development Corp., a company that
bought repossessed houses in L.A.'s slums and fixed them
up for resale. It was Ross's task to go in and clean them up.
"People would leave furniture and the carpet would be
just ruined and all kinds of stuff like that. So I started off, I
would go in and I would pull the carpet up. I would take all
the furniture out. Sometimes they'd have trash in the
garages and it would be just sky high. I would clean the
garage out. I would cut the grass, trim the trees, you know,
make it where it's not just a total dump." The job paid little,
however, and Ross kept his eye peeled for other ways to
make some money. On October 16, 1994, Ross called
Blandón in Nicaragua. The man who owned Wolf River,
Ross said, had a 1991 Mercedes 560 he'd wrecked and
had rebuilt, but he didn't like the workmanship. Ross
thought they should buy it and have Blandón resell it in
Nicaragua at a premium. Blandón said he'd have to look
into it.
And then the conversation turned to cocaine. Ross asked
Blandón if he could "get a little something right now," which
Blandón said he interpreted to mean a couple of kilos.
Blandón said he had some merchandise in Guatemala that
he was planning to move to Los Angeles soon but didn't
have the expense money—driver's fees and plane tickets
and the like—necessary to move it across the border into
the United States. Ross would have to loan him the money
to pay the expenses, Blandón said.
Ross asked what price he was planning to sell the

===== PDF PAGE 656 =====
cocaine for.
"Eleven," Blandón said, meaning $11,000 a kilo.
"Okay, that's good," Ross replied. "Let me know as soon
as possible."
Blandón asked Ross to call him the next day, but he
didn't, and the negotiations for the cocaine sale went
nowhere. Ross said it was pointless because he didn't
have the money to pay Blandón's expenses. In a series of
later calls, Blandón kept asking Ross for a loan and
reminding him about the $18,000 lone-Tone owed him.
According to Blandón's notes of the conversations, Ross
kept insisting he was "broke himself" and "wasn't ready to
start the bussinees [sic]." Most of the conversations
concerned buying cars and trucks and reselling them.
But Blandón and his wife kept pressing, Ross said,
calling him, calling his mother, paging him constantly. His
probation officer, James Galipeau, said he was driving
Ross to a high school one morning to deliver one of his
motivational speeches to the students when Ross's pager
went off. Ross looked at the number and began cursing,
"This guy won't leave me alone," Ross griped, explaining
that the caller was a former cocaine supplier who wanted to
resume business. "I mean, the son-of-a-bitch called him
while he was in the car with his probation officer!" Galipeau
said.
Ross said he met with Blandón in November at
Meneses's old restaurant on Hoover Street and was told
that if his friend didn't repay the money, Blandón was going
to "take care of Tony." Ross believed Blandón meant it;
when Mike Smith had gotten behind on some payments to
Danilo, Smith and his house had been shot up. Blandón
confirmed that he spoke to Ross several times about the
debt Tony McDonald owed, but he denied ever threatening

===== PDF PAGE 657 =====
to kill him.
In December 1994 the 
L.A. Times
 published its opus on
the ten-year anniversary of the city's crack plague, and
once again, Ricky Ross was in the news. Reporter Jesse
Katz crafted a poignant 2,500-word feature that chronicled
"the saga of Ricky Ross' rise and fall." It pinned the
explosion of L.A.'s crack market to his teenage dealings in
South Central.
"If there was an eye to the storm," it began, "if there was
a criminal mastermind behind crack's decade-long reign, if
there was one outlaw capitalist most responsible for
flooding Los Angeles' streets with mass-marketed cocaine,
his name was Freeway Rick."
According to the story Ross's cocaine operation had so
much influence on the L.A. drug market that "by the end of
the decade, he had helped cut wholesale rates from
$60,000 a kilo to just $10,000." The 
Times
 headline called
him the "Deposed King of Crack" and described Ross as
"a master marketer [who] was key to the drug's spread in
L.A."
The Freeway Academy got another plug, and Ross's
embittered nemesis, the recently convicted LAPD sergeant
Steve Polak, took a shot at him—a verbal one—calling
Ross a con artist. "Let him pay for all the people his drugs
have killed. Let him put money into the hospitals for all the
addicted babies. Let me see him turn over a million or two
to the IRS and get a job. . .then maybe I'll give him some
credibility," Polak told Katz. "Ross will fall again some day,"
the ex-detective said ominously.
Katz's story prompted another flood of calls to the
Freeway Academy, Ross said, including more from Danilo
Blandón. One day in February 1995 he was driving around
with Chico Brown, his erstwhile recording studio partner,

===== PDF PAGE 658 =====
"and I got a page from Danilo. I called Danilo back and I
start talking to him and Chico decoded the conversation."
Brown, a veteran crack dealer with the Patrick Johnson
organization, wanted to know what was up. Was Ross
doing dope on the side, when he owed him money?
No, Ross told him. He didn't have enough to buy a car.
He was six months behind on the rent for the theater. Chico
had to loan him the $800 he needed to file a bankruptcy
petition, to keep the bank at bay. Yet this friend of his kept
trying to hit him up for the money Tone-Tone lost, Ross
explained, wanting him to do a deal to pay it back.
Brown's moon-face broke into a wide smile. He had a
solution to everyone's problems, he told Ross, 
He
 would
put up the money for the dope deal. He had some friends
back in Baltimore who were looking to make an investment.
All Ross needed to do was introduce Chico to his source. If
the deal went down, he'd not only forget about the $30,000
Ross owed him, but he'd 
give
 Rick $70,000 for his
troubles.
Rick wouldn't really be buying or selling anything, Brown
rationalized. All he'd be doing is making an introduction.
Brown and his people would take all the financial risk and
handle all the dope. Ross wouldn't have to come anywhere
near it. Easy as pie. Unless, of course, Ross had a better
idea about how to raise the 30 K he owed him.
Ross thought it over. When Brown put it that way, it didn't
actually sound so bad. After all, it wasn't like 
he
 was selling
dope, something he'd promised everybody he'd never do
again. He sure wasn't buying any. Chieo was. Danilo's
cocaine—Chico's money. Their deal. Not his. All he had to
do was make a phone call. One little call, and he'd have
Danilo off his back, Chico off his back, the bank off his
back. In and out. One time.

===== PDF PAGE 659 =====
What the fuck. He was with it, he told Chico. He'd set
things up.
In late February 1995 Ross, Chico Brown, and Brown's
friend from Baltimore, Curtis James, met Blandón in the
parking lot of the Popeye's chicken restaurant in National
City, just south of San Diego. Ross introduced the
Nicaraguan to his friends and told him they would be the
ones he'd be dealing with. And they were ready to deal.
Right now.
Surprisingly, Blandón demurred, as if not yet ready to
seal the deal. The cocaine hadn't crossed the border yet,
he told them. He had 150 kilos coming in. Fifty was for
someone else. They could have the 100 that was left.
"I asked for $200,000 [up front] and they told me they only
had $160,000 but they could do it today," Blandón said.
"Impossible, I told them, today. We have to take a week or
two or three days while the merchandise is crossing, so you
have to wait."
He also tossed off one more threat against Tony
McDonald, telling Ross, "That Tony—I want to get him."
Ross had heard enough about Tone-Tone and the
$18,000. "He ain't gonna fucking pay you!" he said angrily
"He ain't gonna pay you! It ain't worth it. Let it go. Let it go."
"Okay," Blandón replied. "I'll let it go."
"We're going to make a lot of money," Ross reminded
him. Blandón laughed.
They met a week later, again in the Popeye's parking lot.
Blandón told Ross that the Colombians wanted to meet his
friends, to make sure they were reliable. They knew Ross
could be trusted. But they'd never dealt with his friends
before.
Ross, driving Chico's new Nissan Pathfinder, pulled into
a parking slot, with Curtis James and Brown in the

===== PDF PAGE 660 =====
backseat. Blandón and a Hispanic man who did not speak
English walked up to the driver's window. Blandón served
as the man's translator. How much money were they
bringing to the table? the Colombian wanted to know.
From the backseat, Chico told Blandón he had $160,000
now but would have $200,000 by the first of March, if the
Colombians wanted to wait that long. Blandón was testy
about it, but Ross said that was his problem—they'd done
bigger deals with less up front before. If they could deliver it
in LA., Chico said, he'd guarantee them $500,000. The
Colombian suggested a $300,000 down payment would be
more appropriate. After all, this was $1 million worth of
cocaine they were going to be giving them on faith.
Brown told him they'd get the money. "My word is bond,"
he said. "Whatever I say is the truth. My objective is to get
you paid off as soon as possible."
Blandón told him the cocaine was crossing the Mexican
border that night, and they'd call when it arrived in San
Diego. Blandón didn't call, and Ross's partners refused to
come up with any more money for the down payment.
At 730 
A.M.
, March 2, 1995, Ross called Blandón at home
and told him they were in San Diego, ready to deal.
Blandón said he and the Colombian were ducking into
Tijuana to pick it up and would call when it was over the
border. Around four hours later, Blandón called Ross and
his friends at the cheap motel they were staying in, the E-Z
8, and told them to be at the Denny's Restaurant off I-805 in
Chula Vista in twenty minutes.
Ross and his old friend Michael McLaurin—the San Jose
State football player who first told Ross about cocaine back
in 1979—drove to the restaurant in McLaurin's new purple
Ford Ranger pickup. McLaurin, who was working at an L.A.
hospital and had been hitting up the medical staff for

===== PDF PAGE 661 =====
donations to the Freeway Academy, said Ross had called
him and told him he was buying a car in San Diego, but
didn't have a way to get down there. McLaurin agreed to
give him a lift, eager to take his new pickup truck on a long
ride.
With Chico and Curtis James following in Chieo's
Pathfinder, they met Blandón and the Colombian behind
the Denny's shortly after noon. Blandón tried one more time
to get Ross to pony up more cash. The Colombians had
been expecting $300,000, Blandón complained, and Ross
shows up with only around $170,000? Ross assured him
he'd have the rest of the money by tomorrow. Where was
the cocaine?
Nearby, Blandón told him. In a "load car" parked in a
shopping center lot, just like always. Chico Brown said he
wanted to see it, and Blandón got huffy.
"I told him, 'Hey, we don't have no time,'" Blandón
recalled. "'Why don't you tell us that before?'"
But Brown dug in his heels, telling Blandón that he wasn't
buying any dope he'd never seen. Ross jumped in to
smooth things over. It's not necessary, Ross assured
Brown. He and Danilo always did business this way. If
Danilo says the dope is there, it's there. Relax.
"We trust each other," Blandón assured him. Now, where
was the money?
Brown went to his Pathfinder, reached inside, and pulled
out a black-and-green shopping bag full of cash bundles,
which he handed to the Colombian. The trafficker put the
bag in Blandón's car and told Ross to follow them to the
load car, where they would get the car keys.
They drove about a quarter-mile to the Bonita Plaza Mall
and pulled into the parking lot outside the Montgomery
Ward. The Colombian got out and handed a key chain to

===== PDF PAGE 662 =====
Curtis James, telling him the cocaine was in the white
Chevy Blazer parked about twenty yards away. Ross and
McLaurin strolled nonchalantly to the Blazer, and Ross
stuck his head inside, where he saw four cardboard boxes
containing twenty-five kilos each, nestled in the back.
It was all there, just as Danilo had promised. A deal was
still a deal. Ross told McLaurin to take the Blazer back to
L.A., and he'd follow him in the purple pickup. As he walked
to the truck, he saw Blandón and the Colombian driving
away.
Then all hell broke loose.
From everywhere, police cars came screaming up,
sirens blaring. Cops in raid jackets were running through
the parking lot, waving guns. McLaurin revved the engine of
the Blazer and dropped it into gear.
"They burned rubber," DEA agent Charles Jones said.
"Federal agents blocked the vehicle. . .they burned rubber
forward, he blocked it. They put it in reverse, he burned
rubber in reverse and the kill switch finally kicked in." The
DEA had booby-trapped the Blazer so it couldn't be driven.
Ross scampered to the purple truck and jumped in,
tearing out of the parking lot with an unmarked DEA car
roaring along behind him. He was sick to his stomach,
sweating. How could be have been so fucking stupid? How
could he have not seen this coming? Now what? "I was
hoping to find a wall that I could just crash myself into. I
wanted to die."
Ross "went out of the shopping center, blew through stop
signs, intersections at a high rate of speed," Jones said.
"He tried to turn onto Sweetwater Road and a police officer
blocked him and he swerved and crashed in the bushes
and jumped out and ran away." It was not a long chase. In a
matter of minutes he was captured behind a house on a

===== PDF PAGE 663 =====
nearby street, handcuffed, and stuffed into the back of a
police car. He had been a free man only six months.
Back at the DEA regional headquarters in National City,
the jubilant agents counted and stacked up the pile of
money they'd seized. It turned out that Chico had shorted
the Colombians by a couple hundred bucks: $169,445 was
piled on the table, and the agents snapped pictures. Ross
was pushed into a chair and asked if he wanted to make a
statement.
Sure, Ross said. Why not? He saw the lay of the land.
Danilo had set him up, had probably taped all of their calls.
Everyone else was under arrest. The cops had the dope
and Chico's money. Case closed. Ross told them
everything.
Two weeks later a federal grand jury returned a two-count
indictment against Brown, Curtis James, Ricky Ross, and
Mike McLaurin, charging them with conspiracy to possess
cocaine and possession with intent to sell. This would be
Ross's third strike. He was looking at life without parole this
time.
His friends and family were crushed and embarrassed.
"I cussed his Mom out, I cussed his brother out, and my
Mom and I cried together," said Ross's friend and partner
in the youth center, Norman Tillman. "He was talking so
positive, telling me in earnest how he was going to make it
as big legitimately as he did illegitimately. He was going to
prove it to the world."
"Sting Snares Drug Lord Who Vowed To Go Straight,"
the 
L.A. Times
 headline blared. A chagrined Jesse Katz
was flown in from his new job at the 
Times
 Houston bureau
to write off Ricky Ross for good. "I had no doubt that he was
going to fall again," former LAPD detective Polak crowed
to Katz. "I just didn't know it was going to be this soon."

===== PDF PAGE 664 =====
Katz interviewed Ross's brother David, who complained
that the arrest "seems like entrapment. They set him up and
he evidently fell for it." David Ross noted that the informant
was a drug dealing acquaintance "who just kept bugging
him, calling and calling, but Ricky wasn't doing anything like
that anymore."
Katz called Ross afterward and demanded to know why
he'd done it. Ross told him he'd set up the deal to help get
a friend out of debt, "and I was like, 'Come on. Think about
yourself here first.'"
Katz said he felt personally betrayed by Ross, who was
swearing to Katz that he was going straight at the very
same time he was setting up a drug deal. "I caught a lot of
shit from the editors over that. I'd had a hard enough time
getting that original story into the paper," Katz said, six
months after Ross's arrest. "It was supposed to be a
separate part of the [crack] series, but they cut it in half and
made it a sidebar because some people said it looked like
we were glorifying the guy. So you can imagine what the
reaction was at the 
Times
 when it came out that he'd been
busted."
Asked why he thought the DEA would target someone
who had just emerged from prison, broke and vowing to go
straight, Katz had a ready answer: "To fuck with him. They
could go after you right now. That's the scary message in all
of this. If the government decides to fuck with you and you
take the bait, you are automatically fucked."
Ross was locked up without bail in the Metropolitan
Correctional Center in San Diego. He had really done it this
time. His fate seemed as predictable as the calendar.
LWOP. Life without parole. He would never see the outside
world again.

===== PDF PAGE 665 =====
PART TWO

===== PDF PAGE 666 =====
25

===== PDF PAGE 667 =====
"Things are moving all arounds us"
I
 was swept into Ross's decade-long relationship with
Danilo Blandón in late September 1995, two months into
my investigation and six months after Ross's arrest. Quite
unexpectedly, my tipster's allegations about the CIA, the
Contras, and cocaine had led me to the Metropolitan
Correctional Center in downtown San Diego, a bleak,
windowless skyscraper where the former crack king was
being held without bail until his trial.
Entering the tiny interview room, Ross exuded an air of
self-assurance and confidence. He appeared unfazed by
his predicament, but by the time the interview was over, he
had dropped the pretense. Blandón's betrayal had clearly
left him hurt and bewildered. "I can't believe he done me
like this," Ross commented as I packed up my tape
recorder and notebooks. "Why'd he do it? You figure that
out yet?"
I told him what I'd culled from the court files about
Blandón's arrest in May 1992—how he'd faced a
mandatory life sentence and the prospect of having his wife
behind bars as well, leaving their two young daughters
orphaned. It was hard to blame someone for trying to
squirm out of a jam like that, I said. Ross nodded. "So how
much dope did they catch him with?" None, I said. But they
had him on tape-talking to informants about cocaine deals,
bragging about how many thousands of kilos he'd sold.
Ross's reaction brought me up short.
"That's it?" Ross asked incredulously. "They didn't find no
dope on him? Then what would he roll over for? Think about
it. You ain't gonna pull a life sentence just for talking to
somebody about selling dope. That's bullshit. Somebody

===== PDF PAGE 668 =====
ain't tell you something."
LAPD narcotics detective Ron Hodges, who had
investigated Blandón in conjunction with the DEA in 1991–
92, made a similar observation when I interviewed him a
few weeks later. "What's hard to understand [is] when we
actually did the investigation on him and it came to a
conclusion, I think he was charged with what they consider
a 'no-dope conspiracy'—which is like nothing. It's so
minimal. It's like trying to do something when there is
nothing there." Blandón's lawyer, Brad Brunon, pointed out
that his client had no criminal record, and the DEA had
nothing more than some loose talk with criminal informants.
There was no evidence of actual drug dealing, Brunon
argued.
It made no sense. Why, then, had Blandón so readily
agreed to become a government informant? And why had
the Justice Department accorded him such a high degree
of trust and faith? Blandón was an international criminal, a
man who'd brazenly sold drugs and weapons to gang
members for more than a decade. Yet here he was jetting
in and out of the country at government expense, with no
law enforcement supervision whatsoever—free to do as he
pleased. Maybe Ricky Ross's suspicions were right, I
thought. Perhaps Blandón had worked for the U.S.
government before, just as Norwin Meneses had. If he had
a track record, it would certainly explain his extraordinary
treatment.
I quickly got a taste of how protective the Justice
Department was of the Nicaraguan. In October 1995 I
received an unsolicited phone call from the big blond man
I'd met in the bathroom at the San Francisco federal
courthouse a few weeks earlier, Assistant U.S. Attorney
David Hall, Rafael Cornejo's prosecutor.

===== PDF PAGE 669 =====
There were some people who wanted to talk to me, Hall
said. My activity "has a number of people extremely worried
because of an ongoing narcotics investigation that Blandón
is working on for the government." Before I printed anything,
I needed to know the situation. If I wasn't careful, "there is a
distinct possibility that real harm, possibly death, would
come to Mr. Blandón and that an investigation we have
been working on for a couple of years would be
compromised." The DEA wanted to know if some kind of
an accommodation could be reached.
Like what? I asked.
Well, Hall said, it had been proposed that if I held off on
the story for a couple of months, they might be able to
arrange an exclusive interview with Blandón for me.
I told him I didn't think my editors would agree to a delay,
but if lives were in danger, I'd certainly be willing to hear
them out. On October 19, 1995, I walked into a roomful of
DEA agents in the National City regional office, squirreled
away in an industrial complex south of San Diego.
Two of the agents I recognized from court and reading
their names in the court files: Blandón's handlers, the
immaculately coiffed Chuck Jones and his worried-looking
sidekick, Judy Gustafson. The other four I didn't know. The
agent behind the desk, a tall man with an easy smile, got up
and shook my hand warmly. Craig Chretien, he said,
special agent in charge.
"This is a little awkward for us," Chretien began. They
knew generally the story I was working on, he said, and
unfortunately I was getting into some rather sensitive areas.
There were undercover operations—more than four of them
—that I was in danger of exposing, putting agents and their
families at risk. They couldn't give me any details, of
course, but I needed to appreciate the seriousness of the

===== PDF PAGE 670 =====
situation. "What's your angle here?" Chretien asked. "Is it
that the DEA sometimes hires scumbags to go after
people?"
"No. It's about Blandón and Norwin Meneses and the
Contras," I said. "And their dealings with Ricky Ross."
The agents looked at each other quickly out of the
corners of their eyes, but at first said nothing.
"That whole Central American thing," Chretien said
dismissively. "I was down there. You heard all sorts of
things. There was never any proof that the Contras were
dealing drugs. If you're going to get involved in that, you'll
never get to the truth. No one ever will."
"I think that's been pretty well established," I said. "Your
informant was one of the men who was doing it."
Chretien gave Jones a sidelong glance and Jones came
to life. "I can tell you that I have never, 
ever
 heard anything
about Blandón being involved with that," he said firmly. "Not
once. His only involvement with the Contras was that his
father was a general or something down there."
"And these two have practically lived with the man for two
years now," Chretien added, pointing to Jones and
Gustafson. "If it had happened they would know about it."
I could not quite believe what I was hearing. What kind of
scam was this?
"Have you ever asked him about it?" I asked Jones.
"I've already said more than I should."
"Did you ever ask him about doing it with Norwin
Meneses?"
"You'd better go check your sources again," Jones
snapped.
"My source is Blandón," I said. "He testified to it under
oath, before a grand jury. You're telling me you don't know
about that?"

===== PDF PAGE 671 =====
Jones threw up his hands. "Oh, listen, he understands
English pretty well, but sometimes he gets confused, and if
you ask him a question the wrong way he'll say yes when he
means no."
I shook my head. "I've got the transcripts. These weren't
yes or no questions. He gave very detailed responses."
Jones's face and forehead grew beet red and his voice
rose. "You're telling me that he testified that he sold
cocaine for the Contras in 
this
 country? He sold it in 
this
country?"
"That's exactly what I'm telling you. You want to see the
transcripts? I've got them right here."
"I cannot believe that those two U.S. attorneys up there, if
they had him saying that before a grand jury, that they would
ever, ever, ever put him on a witness stand!" Jones fumed.
"They'd have to be insane! They'd have to be total idiots!"
"They didn't put him on the witness stand," I reminded
him. "They yanked him at the last minute."
"That's because the judge ordered them to turn over all
that unredacted material!" Jones blurted. "We're not going
to. . ." He looked quickly at Chretien and clammed up. Just
as I suspected. They knew all about this. The DEA had
nixed Blandón's appearance because Rafael Cornejo's
attorney had discovered the Contra connection and the
government had been ordered to turn over the files.
Chretien told me that it would be best for all concerned if I
simply left out the fact that Blandón was now working for the
DEA. "Your story can just go up to a certain point and stop,
can't it? Is it really necessary to mention his current
relationship with us? If it comes out that he is in any way
connected to DEA, it could seriously compromise some
extremely promising investigations."
I said I thought it was important to the story, which

===== PDF PAGE 672 =====
prompted another angry outburst from Jones. "Even after
what we just told you, you'd still go ahead and put it in the
paper? Why? Why would you put a story in the paper that
would stop us from keeping drugs out of this country? I don't
know if you've got kids or not. . ."
"I've got three kids," I interrupted, "and I don't know what
that has to do with anything."
"So you'll screw up an investigation we've been working
on for a long time, just so you can have a story? Is that it?"
Jones demanded. "You think this story is more important
than what we're doing for this country? How is that more
important?"
"I don't buy it," I replied. "You have to put Blandón on the
witness stand at Ross's trial. So in five months everyone in
the world is going to know he's a DEA informant. Hell, if
they want to know now they can just go down to the
courthouse and look it up, like I did. So that's one problem
I'm having with all this. The other thing is, I think the
American public has been lied to for ten years, and I think
telling them the truth is a whole lot more important than this
investigation of yours."
Jones and I glared at each other, and Chretien stepped
in. "I think we're getting off the topic here. Please
understand, we're not telling you not to do your story. But
your interest is in Meneses primarily and his association
with the U.S. government and the Contras, correct?"
That was one of my interests, I said.
"Well, I think we can help him there, can't we?" Chretien
asked, glancing around the room at the other agents.
"Maybe if we got you that information, you could focus your
story more on him and less on Blandón? And maybe you
wouldn't have to mention some other things?"
"That all depends," I said, "on what that other information

===== PDF PAGE 673 =====
is."
Chretien smiled and stood up. "Okay, then! We're going
to have to talk about this among ourselves. I'm not even
sure what we have in mind is legal, but we'd at least like to
explore it. Could we ask that you please not print anything
until we've talked again? Can you give us a week or two?"
I told him I'd wait for his call.
When I returned to Sacramento, I phoned former DEA
agent Celerino Castillo III, who had investigated allegations
of Contra drug trafficking at Ilopango air base in El
Salvador in the mid-1980s. I asked him if he'd ever heard
of Craig Chretien.
"Yeah, sure," Castillo said. "I know him. He was one of
the people DEA sent to Guatemala to do the internal
investigation of me." He said Chretien and another DEA
official had ordered him to put the word "alleged" in his
reports to Washington about Contra drug shipments from
Ilopango. "They said, 'You cannot actually come out and say
this shit is going on.' And I told them, 'I'm watching the
fucking things fly out of here with my own eyes! Why would I
have to say 'alleged'?"
I told him of Chretien's remark that there was no proof the
Contras were involved in drugs. He snorted. "Aw, bullshit.
Of all people, he knows perfectly well what was going on.
He was reading all my reports—looking for grammatical
errors."
After two weeks I'd heard nothing back, so I called the
San Diego office and asked for Chretien. He no longer
works in this office, I was told. He'd been transferred to
Washington.
The head of the International Division, Robert J. Nieves
—Norwin Meneses's old control agent—had unexpectedly
resigned eight days after my meeting with Chretien, I

===== PDF PAGE 674 =====
discovered. Chretien had been picked to replace him.
I never spoke to Chretien again, and I suspected that the
meeting in San Diego had been set up to find out what I
knew and where I was heading. My suspicions on that
score were confirmed in early 1998 with the release of a
CIA Inspector General's report, which referenced three CIA
cables about me, titled "Possible Attempts to Link CIA to
Narcotraffickers," written within weeks of my meeting with
the DEA agents in San Diego.
"In November 1995, we were informed by DEA that a
reporter has been inquiring about activities in Central
America and any links with the Contras," a heavily
censored December 4, 1995, cable from CIA headquarters
in Langley stated. "DEA has been alerted that Meneses will
undoubtedly claim that he was trafficking narcotics on
behalf of CIA to generate money for the Contras. Query
whether Station can clarify or amplify on the above
information to better identify Meneses or confirm or refute
any claims he may make. HQS trace on (FNU) Meneses
reveal 
extensive
 entries." (Those extensive entries were
not revealed in the declassified version of the CIA's 1998
IG report.)
The DEA's public affairs office in Washington later
attempted to work out a deal with me to set up an interview
with Meneses if I would leave Blandón's DEA ties out of the
story, but fortunately my colleague in Nicaragua, freelance
journalist Georg Hodel, beat them to the punch. He'd found
the massive files of Meneses's 1992 court case in the
Nicaraguan Supreme Court and had tracked the drug lord
down to a prison outside of Managua.
"The clerk says I am the first journalist ever to ask to see
those files, can you imagine?" Hodel asked me. "All the
stories written about this case, and not one of those

===== PDF PAGE 675 =====
reporters ever looked at the files. I have one of my
journalism students, Leonor Delgado, going through and
making us an index of all the pages. There are some
peculiar things in there, I can tell you."
My tipster had told me the truth about Blandón and
Meneses, Georg reported. He'd cheeked it with former
Contra commander Eden Pastora, former Contra lawyer
Carlos Icaza, and others who knew both men. They were
friends and business partners, and their families were very
close to Somoza. They were considered to have been
among the founders of the Contras. And, he said,
Meneses's chief aide, Enrique Miranda, had admitted at
trial that Meneses sold cocaine for the Contras, flying it out
of an air base in El Salvador into a military airfield in Texas.
"In some of the newspaper stories I'm sending you, you
will see that Meneses makes the same claim," Georg said.
"It was part of his defense that the Sandinistas persecuted
him because of his work for the Contras."
I told him of my conversations with the DEA and
suggested that we might want to get to Meneses quickly,
before someone else did. He agreed and told me that there
was another person we needed to talk to as well:
Meneses's chief accuser, Enrique Miranda. According to
the files, Miranda was also still in jail, having been moved to
a prison in the city of Granada after Meneses had allegedly
hired someone to kill him.
He'd already put in a request to the Nicaraguan Ministry
of the Interior to arrange an interview, Georg said. "I think
we can speak to both of them. How quickly can you come
down?"
"As soon as I clear it with my editors," I told him. "I'm not
sure if they even know about this story yet. Dawn's been
running interference for me with the other editors until I got

===== PDF PAGE 676 =====
this somewhat nailed down, but it seems pretty solid to me.
We need to get to Meneses before the DEA does, so if you
want to go ahead and set up the interviews, do it. I'll start
the ball rolling here."
But Georg ran into an inexplicable roadblock. The
normally cooperative prison officials in Managua began
dodging his calls, offering one excuse and one delay after
another. He waited a week, then hopped in his creaky blue
Mazda and drove to the prison where Miranda was being
held, to see what the problem was.
A nervous prison official informed him that Miranda was
not available. Why not? Georg asked. Well, the official
stammered, unfortunately, the prisoner had escaped. He'd
been out on a weekend furlough, and he'd never come
back. It was extremely out of character, Georg was
assured, because Miranda had been a model inmate and
had only a short time left in his sentence.
Astounded, Georg drove to the police station to see how
the manhunt for the notorious trafficker was coming along.
The police looked at him blankly. Someone had escaped
from prison? Who? When? Miranda had been gone for
over a week, and the police had not been notified. Georg's
discovery was front-page news in all the Managua papers.
Official investigations were launched.
"He supposedly escaped the same day I made my
interview request," Georg reported. "My sources tell me
he's in Miami and they say the DEA got him out of the
country. Do you suppose they don't want us talking to him?"
(Georg's sources would later prove to have been well-
informed. Miranda was captured a little over a year later in
December 1996 in Miami, where he was living with his
wife. It emerged that he had gained entry with the help of a
visa the U.S. embassy in Managua had issued him the day

===== PDF PAGE 677 =====
he'd "escaped." Though Miranda had been in the State
Department's computers as a convicted drug trafficker in
1992 and was therefore ineligible for a visa, the State
Department claimed two simultaneous computer failures
that day resulted in him "erroneously" receiving one. The
DEA also denied any involvement but admitted that
Miranda was put on the DEA payroll as an informant "soon
after he came to Miami" and was sent to Central and South
American to work drug cases. The DEA never bothered to
inform the Nicaraguan authorities it was harboring one of
their fugitives.)
But Georg had some good news as well. Meneses was
willing to talk. George had cleared it through the drug
kingpin's wives and lawyers and urged me to come to
Nicaragua as soon as possible. We needed to move
quickly and carefully, he warned, because there was
something about this story that was beginning to give him
the creeps.
"I can't say what it is," he said nervously, "but things are
moving all around us."
In December I gathered up all my notes and files and
wrote a four-page project memo for my editors, outlining
the story as I saw it. I proposed to tell the tale of how the
infant L.A. crack market had been fueled by tons of cocaine
brought in by a Contra drug ring, which helped to spread a
deadly new drug habit "through L.A. and from there to the
hinterlands."
"This series will show that the dumping of cocaine on
L.A.'s street gangs was the back end of a covert effort to
arm and equip the CIA's ragtag army of anti-Communist
Contra guerrillas," I wrote. "While there has long been solid
—if largely ignored—evidence of a CIA-Contra-cocaine
connection, no one has ever asked the question: 'Where

===== PDF PAGE 678 =====
did all the cocaine go once it got here?' Now we know."
I met with Dawn and managing editor David Yarnold in
San Jose, and we spent an hour discussing the progress of
the investigation and the proposed series. Yarnold reread
the project memo, shook his head, and grinned.
"This is one hell of a story," he said. "How soon do you
think you can finish it?"
I told him I needed to go to Miami and Nicaragua to do
some interviews with Meneses, some former Contras, and
the Nicaraguan police. If that came off, we might he able to
have the series ready by March 1996, in time for the Ross
trial, which would give it a hard news angle. But, I said, I
wanted to get some assurances right up front from both of
them.
Because the story had what I called a "high
unbelievability factor," I wanted to use the 
Mercury
's Web
site, Mercury Center, to help document the series. I wanted
us to put our evidence up on the Internet, so readers could
see our documents and reports, read the grand jury
transcripts, listen to the undercover DEA tapes, check our
sources, and make up their own minds about the validity of
the story. After seeing the government's reaction to the
Contra-cocaine stories of the 1980s, I didn't want to be
caught in the old officials-say-there's-no-evidence trap.
The technology now exists for journalists to share our
evidence with the world, I told them, and if there was ever a
story that needed to be solidly backed up, it was this one.
Not only would it help out the story, I wrote in my memo, it
would hopefully raise the standards of investigative
reporting by forcing the press to play show and tell, rather
than hiding behind faceless sources and whisperings from
"senior administration officials."
The editors enthusiastically agreed. It would be a good

===== PDF PAGE 679 =====
way to showcase the 
Mercury
's cutting-edge Web site, they
said, and it was good timing—management directives
were coming out to incorporate the Web page into our print
stories whenever possible. We were, after all, the
newspaper of the Silicon Valley. This would be a chance to
use the Internet in a way that had never been done before,
they agreed. No problem. What else?
The second point I made was something I was sure they
were tired of hearing about. We're going to need space to
tell this story, I told them, a lot more space than the paper
usually devotes to its investigative projects. It was the one
issue that drove me crazy about working for the 
Mercury
News
.
After writing for the 
Plain Dealer
 for five years and
having as much space as I'd wanted, I'd found the
Mercury's
 mania for brevity almost unbearable. My
forfeiture series, for example, had been held to two parts,
and even those stories had been chopped up into bite-
sized bits. I'd had other stories held for weeks and even
months because I wouldn't give in to editors' demands to
cut them in half.
No one reads long stories, I was told. Our focus groups
had shown that readers wanted our stories to be even
shorter than they already were—" tighter and brighter" was
the answer to dwindling readership. Details were boring.
Readers didn't like having to turn pages to follow jumps. If
you couldn't tell a daily story in twelve inches or less, then
maybe it was too complicated to tell. For a time, we even
had a rule: no stories could be longer than forty-eight
inches. Period. And that was for Sundays. Daily stories had
an absolute max of thirty-six inches.
"We've got to lay out everything we know," I told Yarnold,
"because people are going to come after us on this, and I

===== PDF PAGE 680 =====
don't ever want to be in a position where I have to say, 'Oh,
yeah, we knew that, but we didn't have the space to put it in
the paper.' And I don't think you want to be in that position
either."
You'll get as much space as you need, Yarnold assured
me. Don't worry about it. Just go out and bring this thing
home.

===== PDF PAGE 681 =====
26

===== PDF PAGE 682 =====
"That matter, if true, would be
classified"
A
 few days before Ricky Ross's trial was scheduled to—
begin, in March 1996, Jesse Katz of the 
Los Angeles
Times
 called me at home, where I had holed up to sketch
out the first drafts of the series. Though we worked for
competing newspapers, Katz had been a helpful and
encouraging source during the months I'd spent wending
my way through the rise and fall of Ricky Ross's crack
dealing career.
That day, however, he prefaced our conversation with a
warning: he was calling me as a reporter, not as a source.
He was doing a story about Ross's upcoming trial, and he
knew I was investigating Blandón's connections to the CIA
and the Contras. He wanted to ask me about that.
I was thunder-struck. I'd never told Katz anything of the
sort, precisely for this reason. One of the most devious
ways to avoid being scooped was to do a story on the other
guy's story first. Though you normally got only a fraction of
the tale, it took some of the sting out of getting beat, and
some of the wind out of your competitor's sails.
"You must think I'm stupid, Jesse. I'm not telling you
anything."
"Well, I already know it, and I'm going to put it in the
paper. I'm just offering you a chance to comment," he said.
"Look at it this way: as long as I'm going to write about it
anyway, it's in your interest to make sure that what goes
into the paper is accurate."
I had to laugh. "I haven't heard that line in a long time,"I
said. "Forget it. If you've got the information, print it. You
don't need me to comment."

===== PDF PAGE 683 =====
"Look. Alan Fenster filed a motion asking that the case
be dismissed because the prosecutors were illegally
withholding information from the defense. He filed an
affidavit from a private investigator who said he'd spoken to
you, and it says you have information that Blandón was
involved in the Iran-Contra scandal. So what I'm asking is:
is it true?"
I had been double-crossed. A private eye hired by
Ross's lawyer had come by my house looking for
information on Blandón, but I'd told him very little. He then
pulled out a copy of a DEA report Fenster had gotten
through discovery, which showed that Blandón clearly knew
the cocaine he was selling to Ross was being turned into
crack by the Crips and Bloods. It was an important bit of
documentation for my story.
He would give me this, he said, if I would simply show
him something about Blandón that the government hadn't
turned over, so the defense could honestly say there was
information being hidden from them. I wouldn't be identified.
They didn't need a copy. They just needed to know that
such documents existed.
From covering the case, I knew the federal attorneys had
been withholding reams of evidence about Blandón's
sordid background and his association with the Contras. If
Fenster could catch them at it, I thought, maybe the court
would order the Justice Department to make all the
documents public, which would give me access to records I
wanted to see.
I thought it over and agreed to show the PI one of the FBI
reports I'd gotten from the Iran-Contra files at the National
Archives. The next thing I knew, Fenster had named me
and exposed the 
Mercury's
 investigation in his motion, and
now the 
L.A. Times
 was onto it.

===== PDF PAGE 684 =====
I should have known better. For weeks Ross and Fenster
had been badgering me to publish the series before the
trial started, figuring that the publicity might give the Justice
Department second thoughts about pursuing the case. But
after sitting down and roughing out an outline, I saw there
was still too much I didn't know—too many unanswered
questions. Dawn and I agreed that if Blandón, who was
ignoring our interview requests, was going to testify, the
story would benefit by waiting.
Several days earlier I'd told Ross that we were holding
the story. It would not run before his trial. Angry and
desperate, he'd called Katz and told him what little he knew
about my investigation, hoping to stampede the 
Times
 into
rushing something into print so they could beat us to the
punch. Fenster followed that up by filing the motion and
affidavit, giving Katz a court document to hang his story on.
But the 
Times
 still had nothing; it was all secondhand.
That's why Katz was fishing for confirmation. I wasn't going
to give him my story, I told him. "Well, I had to try," he said.
"No hard feelings."
Right after I hung up, Alan Fenster called. The Justice
Department, he said, had just filed a motion to prevent him
from questioning Blandón about the CIA.
"Why? Have you gotten some information about that?"
"No, but apparently they think I have," he said. "You
should read this thing—it's amazing."
The motion, written by Assistant U.S. Attorney L. J.
O'Neale, was as bizarre as Fenster had claimed: "The
United States believes that at least one defendant will
attempt to assert to the effect that the informant in this case
sold cocaine to raise money for the Nicaraguan Contras
and that he did so in conjunction with, or for, the Central
Intelligence Agency."

===== PDF PAGE 685 =====
O'Neale said the government was sure the information
was false, but the motion made it clear that he wasn't sure
at all. "This matter, if true, would be classified," O'Neale
had written, "if false should not be allowed. The only
purpose for asking questions in this regard would be as a
clumsy attempt to bullyrag the United States into foregoing
prosecution."
If the CIA was involved in drug sales, it would be
classified? That was a good one. The whole legal basis for
O'Neale's motion was tangential; Fenster hadn't filed the
required notice to alert the government that he might reveal
classified information at trial. Therefore, O'Neale wanted a
court order "prohibiting any defendant from making any
reference in this case to the United States Central
Intelligence Agency, or to any alleged activity of that
Agency."
Fenster said there was a hearing on the government's
motion scheduled for the next day; and I jumped on a plane
to San Diego. I couldn't wait to hear the U.S. Justice
Department stand up in court and say that information
about CIA involvement in drug trafficking was classified.
When I got there, I noticed that I was the only spectator in
the courtroom. Good. I took a seat in the front row.
Shortly before the hearing began, I heard the courtroom
door open behind me. It was Jesse Katz, with a big smile
on his face. The 
Times
 had flown him in from his office in
Houston just to be here, he told me.
I groaned silently. There goes the ball game. All the
connections between Blandón, the Contras, the CIA, and
Ricky Ross were going to come out in public, and the 
L.A.
Times
 was going to beat me on my own goddamned story.
Nine months worth of work down the crapper. I wanted to
tear my hair out.

===== PDF PAGE 686 =====
From a side door, prosecutor L. J. O'Neale strutted in,
carrying a boxload of records, followed by DEA agents
Jones and Gustafson. O'Neale looked at me; he looked at
Jesse Katz; and then he blanched. When federal judge
Marilyn Huff called the courtroom to order, O'Neale
immediately asked to approach the bench.
He and Fenster huddled with the judge, whispering.
Occasionally O'Neale would gesture to Katz and me. The
huddle broke up, and Fenster walked back to the defense
table, shaking his head.
"I have reviewed the government's request that the court
seal, uh, certain portions," Huff announced cryptically. "You
may be heard at sidebar. Mr. O'Neale. And defense
counsel." The lawyers again trooped up to the judge's
bench and began an animated, whispered conversation.
Katz and I strained to catch bits and pieces. I heard
"CIA" several times—" murders in Mexico"; "money from
the U.S. government"; "Contras."
O'Neale looked at us and turned back to the huddle. He
warned defense attorney Juanita Brooks to lower her voice.
"The reporters that Mr. Fenster has brought to court today
are listening very carefully," he told her.
As with most federal court proceedings, the conversation
was recorded and I later obtained a copy of the tape.
Brooks, in a low whisper, told the judge that she was very
disturbed O'Neale had hidden from the defense the fact
that "Blandón was a member of an organization
responsible for numerous murders in Mexico." O'Neale
denied it. While he admitted that Blandón had gotten into
the drug business by selling cocaine for the Contras, he
said there was "absolutely no connection between Blandón
and the CIA."
"He was never authorized to do that by a CIA agent?"

===== PDF PAGE 687 =====
Huff whispered. "Well, look," O'Neale hissed, "that's
something I'm not even sure I can say 'Yes' or 'No' to
because that comes within the realm of—look, I have no
reason to believe he had any contact with the CIA and I
would defy counsel to come up with any kind of credible
information that he had a connection to the CIA. . ."
Fenster, struggling to keep his voice low, whispered that
the reason he didn't have any information was because the
government had refused to turn over "pages and pages of
records. . .that I know for a fact exist!" O'Neale denied there
was anything significant in the files.
Ten minutes turned into twenty minutes, and it dawned on
us that the entire motion was going to be heard in whispers
at the judge's bench. I'd never seen anything like it, and I'd
covered many federal trials. Katz was beside himself.
"They can't do this!" he insisted. "How can they do this,
just because we're here?" I told him I didn't know and
commiserated with him, but inside I was exulting. Thank
God for this one instance of government secrecy.
The next morning I ran down to the hotel lobby and
grabbed a copy of the 
Times
. Katz's story had run, focusing
on the relationship between Ross and Blandón. Blandón,
Katz wrote, had "taught [Ross] the trade" and oversaw his
rise "through the ranks of the Los Angeles underworld,
becoming the first crack-dealing millionaire on South
Central's streets." The story hinted at "new and surprising
dimensions" involving Blandón and some alleged "ties to
U.S. intelligence sources," but never said what they were.
There was no mention of the Contras. Whew.
When the trial got under way that day, once again I was
the only reporter in the courtroom. Katz had apparently
gone back to Houston, and no one from the 
Times
 had
been assigned to cover the trial that the paper had

===== PDF PAGE 688 =====
previewed that very morning.
Once again, Fenster demanded that the government turn
over its records about Blandón, arguing that it was
prejudicing Ross's chance to fairly cross-examine his chief
accuser. O'Neale calmly assured Fenster that he'd gotten
everything the government felt he was entitled to know
about Blandón—his prior arrest record and the fact that
he'd been paid $40,000 for setting Ross up. What else
could he possibly want?
"I don't think my client's life should be up to the
government to determine what he should be allowed to
know about Blandón's credibility," Fenster told Huff
indignantly.
"The system we've set up has the government review all
the information in its files to decide whether it complies with
the law," Judge Huff replied blandly. "Mr. O'Neale, in good
faith, has made that review."
"So we're supposed to trust the government to tell us if
the CIA was involved?" Fenster asked. "They say that
there's nothing that exists. I don't know if they really know
that. I mean, I don't know if they've checked with the CIA to
determine if such matters exist."
To my surprise, O'Neale admitted that he hadn't
checked. Even though he'd personally assured the court
several times that the government had no grounds to
believe Blandón had any CIA ties, he'd never actually
gotten around to asking the CIA. There was no need, he
insisted: "One hopes that whatever the CIA does in the best
interests of this country, that it will be concealed from view.
And one hopes that if they do something that is in the worst
interest or in violation of the laws of this country, that it will
come to light. But, no, I haven't checked with the CIA. I've
had no cause to check with the CIA."

===== PDF PAGE 689 =====
Huff ignored O'Neale's stunning admission and told
Fenster that he should trust her to do the right thing. Why,
just that morning, she reminded him, she'd ordered
prosecutors to turn over two pages from Sergeant Tom
Gordon's long-missing search warrant application for the
1986 raid on Blandón's house.
The rest of it, she'd decided, wasn't relevant. Huff denied
Fenster's motions.
There was one other matter the United States wanted to
take up, if the court would be so kind, O'Neale said. Huff
smiled pleasantly at him and told him to go ahead.
Reaching into his briefcase, O'Neale yanked out a copy
of the morning's 
L.A. Times
 and waved it over his head. It
had come to his attention, he announced dramatically, that
the defense lawyers were leaking confidential information
to the press! Huff appeared shocked and looked angrily at
the defense table. O'Neale noted that Katz's story
contained a phrase from a Justice Department memo that
explained Danilo Blandón's deal with the government.
"I submit to the Court that our reasonable belief is that
this document was obtained from one of those four!"
O'Neale said, jabbing the offending newspaper in the
direction of the four defense attorneys across the
courtroom. "And there is no other explanation! It's not a filed
document. It's not a public record document. . .but
somehow, somewhere, that letter of February 15th was
given to a 
journalist!
"
Huff gave the defense lawyers a hard stare.
"I'm not saying that there's any criminal wrongdoing
here," O'Neale added. "I'm saying that we have to be very
careful in this case about pre-trial publicity. . .. Not only am I
concerned about a fair trial, I am also concerned with the
safety of the witness and the witness' family. There is a real

===== PDF PAGE 690 =====
safety issue here. . .. We have heard through reliable
sources that there are threats of 
death
 against the witness,
and we take those seriously and this is a serious
business."
O'Neale stroked his beard and looked reproachfully at
the defense lawyers.
"Without ascribing any wrongdoing to any counsel
present, it is my opinion, and I state this only as an opinion,
that Mr. Ross personally is attempting to manipulate the
media, and may be attempting to affect the outcome of the
trial 
through the media!
 As I say, I ascribe this to Mr. Ross
personally, and I'm not sure that he is under any obligation
—as are attorneys. However, I do again point out that this
document comes, there were four copies sent out and here
it is in the paper—it 
has
 to come from one of those four
copies! I sure didn't give it to anybody!"
The defense lawyers were shaking their heads and
appeared to be chuckling. One of them, Federal Public
Defender Maria Forde, slowly got to her feet.
"Ms. Forde?" Huff said icily.
"I find it personally offensive that Mr. O'Neale would take
the position that someone had to leak this document to the
press," Forde said slowly. "I think with a little review he
would have been able to remember that this document
became a part of the public record when it was filed as
Exhibit A of Mr. Fenster's motion to dismiss because of
egregious Brady violations. It is a document of public
record."
"Oh," Huff said quickly. "I see."
She looked at O'Neale, who began babbling. "I'm sorry.
In that case, Ms. Forde, uh, I will say Ms. Forde is correct,
that there may be—uh, that I had forgotten that that was an
exhibit and insofar as anyone took personal or otherwise

===== PDF PAGE 691 =====
offense, I do apologize for that." Before he sat down,
though, he wanted to remind everyone that he was still
concerned about the death threats—" wherever 
they
 came
from." I laughed silently. What a clown.
Blandón, wearing tinted aviator glasses and a dark suit,
made his grand entry the next day, shielded by U.S.
marshals. They led him to a row of chairs directly in front of
me, and he sat down stiffly. After chasing him around
California and Central America for nine months, seeing him
now for the first time sitting only a foot away gave me a
strange feeling. "Chanchin" in the flesh. I was sorry Georg
wasn't here to see this.
I leaned over the rail and tapped Blandón on the shoulder
with one of my business cards.
"I've been calling all over for you," I said. "I'm sure your
mother-in-law is tired of hearing my voice." He turned and
smiled. "I apologize." I told him I needed to talk to him. He
shook his head. "I can't, because of all of this."
"Okay then. How about after the trial?"
"No. Personally, if it was up to me, I would say yes. But
they won't let me," he said, nodding toward the prosecution
table.
"The prosecutor won't let you talk?"
He shook his head. "DEA."
"So you won't talk to me ever, is that it?"
He nodded and shrugged. "Sorry. What can I do?"
O'Neale called Blandón up to the stand and led him
carefully through his testimony. He touched on the Contras,
admitting that Meneses had recruited him to sell cocaine
for them. He said he'd stopped selling Contra cocaine
when he split from Meneses in 1983 and started keeping
the money for himself.
That was odd, I thought, flipping through my notebook.

===== PDF PAGE 692 =====
When I'd interviewed O'Neale in November, the prosecutor
had said that occurred in 1986. The day before the trial, I
noticed, O'Neale had said in court that it happened in 1984.
By the end of the day, though,Blandón would be insisting
that he'd actually quit in 1982—long before he'd met Ross,
he said. O'Neale kept going over and over that point.
Then it dawned on me. They were trying to open a
window, hoping to put a decent interval between the time
Blandón was selling dope for the CIA's army and the time
he started selling dope to the L.A. gangs. They were trying
to break the chain linking the Contra's cocaine to the Crips
and Bloods.
There was one big problem with that tactic. It didn't jibe
with all the other facts. Ross said he'd been dealing with
Blandón and his minions since 1981. Second, there were
government documents out there strongly suggesting that
Blandón's testimony was false—records that said he was
selling cocaine for Meneses and the Contras all the way
through 1986. Of course, Fenster didn't have those records,
since the government had refused to turn them over.
(Additional records surfaced after the trial was over and
Blandón eventually admitted to the Senate Intelligence
Committee and the CIA Inspector General that his Contra
contributions continued through 1985.)
During the noon break, Fenster approached me in the
hallway outside the courtroom. "Can we have lunch?" he
asked. We walked to the restaurant of the Doubletree Hotel
at Horton Plaza, near the courthouse. Fenster sipped an
iced tea and asked me what I thought about Blandón's
testimony.
"You got the 
Highlights for Children
 version of his
cocaine dealings with the Contras," I said.
"That's what I thought. How am I supposed to cross-

===== PDF PAGE 693 =====
examine this guy? I don't even know what to ask!" He
laughed ruefully. "Isn't this just crazy? I mean, here I am,
defending a man against a life sentence, and I've got to ask
some reporter if the prosecution testimony is accurate.
That's justice for you. You know more about the bastard
than I do."
"Not as much as I'd like, unfortunately. And he just told
me he's never going to talk to me."
A light came on. Wait a minute. What law said I needed
to do my interview directly? The solution was right here in
front of me. Blandón was up there on a witness stand,
under oath, in front of a federal judge. He was a sitting
duck. I'd never get a better shot at him than this. For that
matter, I doubted he'd ever be seen in public again. It was
now or never.
"Tell you what," I said. "I need to make sure this is okay
first, but what would you think about me giving you some
questions to ask him?"
"You read my mind," Fenster said, getting a notepad out
of his briefcase. I excused myself and went to a pay phone.
Miraculously, Dawn was at her desk, and I explained the
situation. There was no other way, I told her. Could she see
any possible harm in giving Fenster some questions about
the Contras? "I think it's a great idea," she said. "I wish we
could do all of our interviews under oath."
When Fenster began his cross-examination the next day,
he came right at Blandón, grilling him about his family's
connections to the Somoza dictatorship. "There were
certain families in Nicaragua that were part of the ruling
cartel of Nicaragua, is that correct?"
O'Neale turned and glared at me and then jumped to his
feet.
"Excuse me, I have an objection!" he shouted.

===== PDF PAGE 694 =====
"Relevance! Inflammatory language! What is the—the—
relevance to—what the—"
He was overruled, and Fenster pushed on, boring in on
Blandón's unbelievable claim that he quit dealing cocaine
for the Contras when the CIA came through with $19 million
in aid.
"Nineteen million dollars isn't even a drop in the bucket
when you run that kind of operation, isn't that correct?"
"I didn't. . .I didn't know we received the $19 million,"
Blandón confessed. "I cannot tell you."
"Is it your testimony that you decided to keep the profits
from the drug dealing because the Contra organization had
enough money to fund their own war? Is that your
testimony?"
"No sir. Let me explain one thing. When we meet—when
we raise money for the Contra revolution, we received
orders from the—" He paused and looked at O'Neale.
O'Neale stared at him. "From another people." Because of
the order prohibiting CIA testimony, Fenster was unable to
pursue that line of inquiry.
He quizzed Blandón about his meetings in Honduras with
CIA agent Enrique Bermudez, the FDN organization in
Miami, and his connections to the Meneses family. The
Nicaraguan looked helplessly at O'Neale, and several
times the prosecutor leaped up to object, spluttering that
Fenster's questions were irrelevant and prejudicial. Most of
the time he was overruled. Blandón was like a deer caught
in the headlights. Every so often DEA agent Jones would
turn and give me the evil eye.
He knew where this shit was coming from. So did
O'Neale, who actually complained about it to the judge.
They'd done their best to keep it bottled up, and it had
spilled out anyway. I walked back to my hotel room that

===== PDF PAGE 695 =====
night ten feet off the ground.
It was all out in the open now. The FDN had sold drugs to
American citizens—mainly black Americans—and the CIA
was on the hook for it: a CIA agent had given the
goddamned order. I thought back to all the lies that had
been told about the Contras' innocence. All the bullshit that
had been piled on the reporters, cops, and congressional
investigators who'd tried to do an honest job and bring light
into the dark swamp where covert operators and criminals
colluded. There was no denying it any more.
Now I was ready to write.

===== PDF PAGE 696 =====
27

===== PDF PAGE 697 =====
"A very difficult decision"
R
oss and all but one of his codefendants were convicted
in the spring of 1996 of conspiring to sell the DEA's
cocaine. Considering the facts that were presented, and
the evidence that was withheld, there was little else the
jurors could do. But in interviews with the Federal Public
Defender's Office afterward, several expressed disgust
with s the government's case.
"Ricky was the hardest one for us to decide," said juror
Norman Brown, a twenty-nine-year-old data entry operator
at the San Diego Zoo. "None of us liked Blandón. A few of
the jurors were very upset that he is used by law
enforcement." Said another juror, a forty-six-year-old fund-
raiser for Scripps Hospital: "Blandón made us all so angry
that we would use that kind of sleazeball. We wanted to
acquit Ricky Ross just to give the message to the
government that we disagreed with the use of Blandón."
Ross was sentenced to life without parole, but that was
later reduced by a federal appeals court to 20 years to life.
My story now had an ending, one that seemed to
exemplify the hypocrisy of the whole War on Drugs. The
crack dealers went to prison while the men who made
crack possible—the cocaine importers—walked away
whistling. I laid the series out in just those terms, beginning
it in the early 1980s with the critical role played by the
Nicaraguan "freedom fighters" in founding L.A.'s crack
market and ending it in the early 1990s, with the passage
of the anticrack laws that were then packing the prisons
with thousands of young black dealers—and with Blandón's
sudden transformation into an antidrug warrior.
In mid-April I finished the first drafts and sent them up to

===== PDF PAGE 698 =====
my editors, with no clue as to how they would be received.
They were like nothing I had ever written before, and
probably unlike anything my editors had ever grappled with
either: a tale spanning more than a decade, that attempted
to show how two of the defining issues of the 1980s—the
Contra war and the crack explosion, seemingly
unconnected social phenomena—were actually intertwined,
thanks largely to government meddling.
The four-part series I turned in focused on the
relationship between the Contras and the crack king. It
mentioned the CIA's role in passing, noting that some of the
money had gone to a CIA-run army and that there were
federal law enforcement reports suggesting the CIA knew
about it. I never believed, and never wrote, that there was a
grand CIA conspiracy behind the crack plague. Indeed, the
more I learned about the agency, the more certain of that I
became. The CIA couldn't even mine a harbor without
getting its trenchcoat stuck in its fly.
That the Contras' cocaine ended up being turned into
crack was a horrible accident of history, I believed, not
someone's evil plan. The Contras just happened to pick the
worst possible time ever to begin peddling cheap cocaine
in black neighborhoods. That, I believed, was the real
danger the CIA has always presented—unbridled criminal
stupidity, cloaked in a blanket of national security.
"The fact that a government-connected drug ring was
dumping tons of cocaine into the black neighborhoods in
L.A.—and to a lesser extent in San Jose, Oakland, San
Francisco, Portland, Houston, Oklahoma City, Alabama
and New Orleans—goes a long way towards explaining
why crack developed such deep roots in the black
community," I wrote. "It's where the seed was planted."
Looking back, I can barely believe I was permitted to

===== PDF PAGE 699 =====
write such a story, but that was the kind of newspaper the
Mercury News
 was at the time. No topic was taboo, or at
least if there was one I never discovered it. And I was
always looking.
The reason I'd left a much larger paper in Cleveland to
work for the 
Mercury
 was because its editors convinced
me that they ran one of the few newspapers in the country
with that kind of courage. There were no sacred cows, they
pledged; and for nine years they had been true to their
word. Not one of my stories was ever spiked or significantly
watered down; nearly 300 of them had appeared on the
Merc's
 front page, including many that wouldn't have stood
a chance in hell of being printed in other mainstream
newspapers.
One of the first pieces I'd turned in—just to see if my new
editors could walk the walk—disclosed that some of the
biggest and most profitable companies in California were
milking a state training program for the soon-to-be-
unemployed by claiming they were ready to lay off hundreds
of workers with obsolete job skills, having no intention of
doing so. Among those unethical corporations, my story
noted prominently, was the 
San Jose Mercury News
, which
had used public funds to subsidize the purchase of new
printing presses. The story ran on the front page.
So when Dawn called me with the official reaction to
"Dark Alliance," I was gratified but not surprised. They
loved it, she said happily. They couldn't wait to get it in the
newspaper. They thought it was important, groundbreaking
reporting. Congratulations. But there was one hitch. "They
thought it was too long," she said. It needed to be cut.
The four main stories ranged between 2,400 words and
3,200 words apiece, and for a major metropolitan daily,
that's not a lot of space. For the 
Mercury
, though, it was as

===== PDF PAGE 700 =====
if I'd asked for the moon, a raise, a shower in my office, and
an executive parking place all at the same time.
"They're never going to go for four parts," Dawn warned.
"Yarnold told me I could have as much space as I
needed," I reminded her. "I can't do it in less than four parts.
I've gotten this thing down as far as I can get it. You're going
to start cutting into its spinal cord if you cut it anymore." The
problem was that the believability of the story hinged on the
weight of the evidence. Every fact that was cut would make
the story appear more speculative than it really was.
For weeks we wrangled back and forth, and then I got the
word. David Yarnold, the managing editor, had decreed
that it was three parts or nothing.
Fine, I said. I stitched the second and third parts together
into one long part and resubmitted the series.
"Gee," Dawn said. "This second part is kind of long. We
need to cut it."
This tug-of-war continued throughout the spring of 1996.
She would cut paragraphs out, I would put them back in.
We tried creating sidebars—small stories that ran
alongside the main one—so we could hit the "magic
numbers," the maximum length the editors had set for
stories. It was still too long. Finally I put my foot down. No
more cuts. The editors relented.
"Okay," Dawn said. "You've made your point. Let's try it
again as a four-parter."
I reassembled all the scattered bits and pieces and
resubmitted it. She read it, approved it, and sent it up the
editing chain. I got a call a few days later.
"Well, they liked it and Yarnold agreed that four parts is
fine. But they want the first part rewritten," she said. "They
think its too feature-y. It should have a harder edge on it,
more news. We need to go through and pull out all of the

===== PDF PAGE 701 =====
information about the CIA and the Contras and put it in the
first day."
"The reason it's got a feature lead is because the series
is
 a feature," I argued. "It's about the three men who started
the L.A. crack market. That's the story I want to tell. If we
turn this thing into a Contra cocaine story, everyone is
going to say, 'Oh, that's old news.' We agreed on this
already, remember?"
"That's what they want," Dawn said. "I'm just telling you
what they told me."
"Well, I'm not writing it that way. I'm tired of this
nonsense."
"Just try it, okay? Give it a quick write-thru. And if it
doesn't work, it doesn't work, and we'll go back to the old
way. But we've got to give it a try."
I gritted my teeth. Okay. If they wanted a hard edge on
this thing, I'd give them one. I sat down at my computer, and
in a few minutes I hammered out the paragraph that, with a
few changes, would open the "Dark Alliance" series:
For the better part of a decade, a Bay Area drug
ring sold tons of cocaine to the Crips and Bloods
street gangs of Los Angeles and funneled millions
in drug profits to a Latin American guerrilla army
run by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency, a
Mercury News
 investigation has found. This drug
network, federal records show, opened the first
pipeline between Colombia's cocaine cartels and
the black neighborhoods of Los Angeles, a city
now known as the crack capital of the world. The
cocaine it brought into the United States fueled
the crack explosion in urban America, and the
simultaneous rise to power of the murderous
gangs of black L.A.

===== PDF PAGE 702 =====
I hit the transmit button.
Dawn called the next morning. "This is perfect," she said.
"This is exactly what they wanted." The rest of the editing
went fairly smoothly, and by July 26, 1996, the four-part
series was done, edited, and ready to go in the paper,
starting August 18.
Late one night, towards the end of July, the phone rang.
"Well, I have-some good news and some bad news," Dawn
began. "The bad news is that David Yarnold is no longer
the editor on this series. He took a new job with Knight-
Ridder, and he's out of here. The good news is that Paul
Van Slambrouck is the new editor and 1 showed him the
series today and he really likes it and thinks we've got a
great story here."
"We've got a brand new editor on this?" I cried. "Now?
And he just read it for the first time today? You're shitting
me. So what does this mean?"
"Well, unfortunately, it means it's not going to run on the
eighteenth. He has some changes he wants to make to it."
I sat up and started laughing. "Really? What kind of
changes?"
"He thinks its too long. We need to make it three parts."
I howled. "You can't be serious, Dawn. This is a joke,
right?"
"No. I'm sorry. Maybe you should talk to Paul."
Van Slambrouck, the 
Mercury
's national editor and a
smart, thoughtful journalist, was apologetic. It wasn't the way
he wanted to do things either. But he thought the series was
terrific and he wanted very much to get it in the paper and
hoped I still felt the same way.
"Dawn said you wanted to make some changes."
It needed to come down in length, he said, and we

===== PDF PAGE 703 =====
needed more CIA stuff in the first day. I was back to square
one.
I sat down and fired off an angry memo to Dawn. Van
Slambrouck had asked me to cut sixty-five inches, I
complained. He had suggested that I needed to go through
the story myself and be "ruthless" and I'd be able to find
sixty-five inches to cut, no problem. If there was sixty-five
inches of fat left in those stories, I wrote to Dawn, "we both
ought to resign because we obviously aren't doing our jobs
right."
An additional problem, I reminded Dawn, was that my
family and I were in the midst of moving and were taking
our vacation while the new house was being readied.
During the next three weeks I rewrote the series on a laptop
while on "vacation," first in a beach house on the Outer
Banks of North Carolina, then in a motel room in
Washington, D.C., and finally in the basement of my in-laws'
house in Indiana. It was horrible. I had no way of telling what
was being cut back at the 
Mercury
, what was being put
back in, or what was being rewritten. Five or six different
versions were flying around. Don't these people know what
they're dealing with here? I wondered. Don't they realize the
import of what we're printing?
I eventually realized that for the most part they did not,
which may have been the reason the series got in the
paper in the first place. It came in under the radar. 
Mercury
News
 executive editor jerry Ceppos would later tell
Newsweek
 that "he read only part of the story" before it
appeared in print, an amazing admission if true.
Perhaps my editors thought I was exaggerating the
story's significance, trying to gobble up more space than
was really justified? It is a common sight in newsrooms to
see reporters hype their stories. I knew reporters who

===== PDF PAGE 704 =====
worked their editors like PR agents, or lobbyists pimping a
bill. But I had never worked that way. I figured my editors
knew how to read as well as anyone. My paycheck was the
same every week, no matter which page they put my story
on. (Legendary investigative reporter I. F. Stone once said
that he read every section of the 
Washington Post
thoroughly because he never knew where he would find a
front-page story.)
But I also knew from my research what kind of backlash
would result from a story that dirtied up the CIA, and I
stressed it repeatedly to my editors. 
New York Times
reporter Seymour Hersh's 1974 expose of Operation
Chaos, a massive illegal CIA domestic spying operation,
had brought on attacks in the 
Washington Post
 (he had no
"hard" proof) and 
Time
 ("There is strong likelihood that
Hersh's CIA story is considerably exaggerated"), among
many others.
CBS newsman Daniel Schorr was demonized by the CIA
and conservative commentators for leaking a copy of a
secret Congressional report of CIA abuses to the 
Village
Voice
 in 1976, after CBS had declined to make it public.
Eventually, Schorr was dumped by the network and virtually
blackballed. A decade later, a similar fate befell Robert
Parry and Brian Barger of the Associated Press after they
broke several stories on Contra involvement with drug
trafficking and Ollie North's secret resupply operation. In
both cases, the mainstream journalistic community uttered
barely a peep of protest.
At 2:00 
A.M.
—midnight in San Jose—on August 18, 1996,1
was at a party at my best friend's house in Indianapolis. I
excused myself, went into a bedroom, plugged in my

===== PDF PAGE 705 =====
laptop, and dialed into the 
Mercury
's Web site. A picture of
a man smoking crack, superimposed upon the seal of the
CIA, drew itself on the screen. After more than a year of
work, "Dark Alliance" was finally out. I e-mailed Georg with
the news, went back out to the party and got drunk. The next
morning I flew back to Sacramento.
Initially, the silence was deafening. Then we realized why.
They had unintentionally run the series the week between
the Republican and Democratic national conventions. The
national media and the nation's politicians were on
vacation; nobody was paying much attention to anything,
and particularly not a story in a regional northern California
newspaper.
By August 21, though, some radio stations began calling.
What was this CIA story we've been hearing about on the
Web?
That combination—talk radio and the Internet—is what
saved "Dark Alliance" from slipping silently below the
surface and disappearing without a trace. The Internet
wizards at Mercury Center—Mark Hull, Donna Vanish, and
Albert Poon—had done a brilliant, eye-popping job on the
"Dark Alliance" Web page. It was something right out of the
movies: full-color animated maps, one-click access to uncut
source documents, unpublished photos, audio clips from
undercover DEA tapes and Danilo Blandón's federal court
testimony, a bibliography, a timeline—all in far more depth
and detail than we were able to get into the newspaper.
For investigative reporting, the Web was a dream come
true. No longer did the public have to rely on the word of
sources, or the reporter's version of what a document
meant. The Web made it possible to share your files
directly with your readers. If they cared to, they could read
and hear exactly what you had read and heard, and make

===== PDF PAGE 706 =====
up their own minds about the story. It was raw interactive
journalism, perhaps too interactive for some.
Traditionally, reporters jealously guard their notes and
their files. In that sense, journalism has something in
common with the cocaine business: You are only as good
as your sources. Lousy journalists tend to hide behind
unnamed sources, blind quotes, and unrevealed records.
But as far as I was concerned, my best protection was to
allow everyone to see what I'd unearthed. I had it on paper
—and most of it was public record. We scanned as many
of my documents as possible into the computers at Mercury
Center and uploaded them onto the Internet. A reader
anywhere in the world could now instantly see our
supporting documentation.
Cleverly, Mercury Center had sent out advance e-mail
alerts to various Usenet newsgroups the day before the
series appeared, tipping them off to the unveiling of the
page. The cyberjournalists were as proud of their
revolutionary handiwork as I was and wanted to make sure
the Net world knew what they'd just pulled off: the first major
online expose in newspaper history.
"The unlimited space of the Web allowed the 
Mercury
News
 to move forward into a whole new kind of journalism,"
Microsoft's 
Encarta
 encyclopedia would later write of "Dark
Alliance." "The 
Mercury News
 used. . .the Web to let
intelligent readers review the source materials and draw
their own conclusions. This step, far beyond the traditional
role of newspapers, attracted attention and readers from all
over the world."
At the end of that first week I returned to San Diego for
Ricky Ross's sentencing. That was where I had my first
inkling of the firestorm I'd touched off. Radio stations were
blanketing the newspaper with interview requests. Before

===== PDF PAGE 707 =====
heading for the courthouse that morning, I'd done radio
shows in Washington, D.C., Austin, Texas, and Detroit.
A haggard-looking L. J. O'Neale, the assistant U.S.
attorney, spotted me in the hallway outside the courtroom.
"Hey there," I said. "You see the story?"
He scowled and pushed by without saying a word. He'd
already fought his way through television camera crews
outside the courthouse, and he clearly wasn't pleased with
all the attention. Inside the courtroom, reporters jostled for
seats.
Fenster asked for a postponement of sentencing, saying
the series had raised significant questions about Blandón
and his connections to the CIA. O'Neale protested angrily,
accusing Ross of dreaming up the whole CIA plot and
feeding it to a gullible journalist who was spreading
ridiculous conspiracy theories.
But Judge Huff looked troubled and told O'Neale she
wanted some answers from the CIA before she passed
sentence on Ross and his code-fendants. And she also
wanted the Justice Department to begin deportation
proceedings against Blandón immediately. The news
made the wires, and the switchboard at the 
Mercury News
lit up. "This place is going crazy!" Dawn reported. "The
Web page had something like 500,000 hits on it today!"
The 
Mercury News
's executive editor, Jerry Ceppos,
called and congratulated me. The TV networks were calling
the paper. We were getting phone calls from all over the
world. "Let's stay on top of this," he said. "Anything you
need, you let us know. We want to run with this thing." A few
days later, I got a $500 bonus check in the mail and a note
from Ceppos: "Remarkable series! Thanks for doing this
for us."
I was on National Public Radio the following Monday and,

===== PDF PAGE 708 =====
as always, gave out the Web site address so people could
read the series and see our documents. We had 800,000
hits that day. The synergy was amazing. For the first time,
people could hear about a story on the radio—even one
that appeared several weeks earlier and thousands of
miles away—and immediately read it on their computer
screens.
Unlike all the previous stories about the Contras and
cocaine, this one couldn't be killed off in the traditional
manner, by Big Media ignoreing it or relegating it to the
news briefs. Millions of people were finding out about "Dark
Alliance" anyway—even though not a word had appeared
in the so-called national press. That phenomenon was
newsworthy by itself.
"The story has serious legs, moving rapidly through the
African American community via e-mail and file downloads,
and then into living rooms, offices and churches, and onto
streets and into more mainstream black papers and radio
broadcasts," 
HotWired
 magazine wrote in October 1996.
"For the first time, my grandmother asked to go online and
read something. I couldn't believe it. She wouldn't look at a
computer before," one black government lawyer e-mailed
the magazine. "This story is causing a sensation among
blacks. It's all they're talking about. They are enraged about
it and they can't believe it isn't on every front page in
America."
"Dark Alliance," 
Hot Wired
 wrote, "is making digital and
media history. The 
Mercury News
 is demonstrating for
perhaps the first time how the Web and the traditional
press can fuse to good effect—and that there's still a
chance to break modern media's parochial instincts and
return some power to journalists outside of Washington and
New York. . .. The story may alter black consciousness

===== PDF PAGE 709 =====
about the Net, and further the Web's reputation as a
powerful—and serious—information medium." The
Associated Press noted that "while no one has been able
to track specific numbers of blacks who might have come
online because of the 
Mercury News
 series, many feel it
has been a watershed event."
A 
Boston Globe
 reporter arrived in Los Angeles in early
October 1996 and breathlessly reported that the story was
"pulsing through [L.A.'s] black neighborhoods like a
shockwave, provoking a stunning, growing level of anger
and indigation. Talk-radio stations with predominantly black
audiences are deluged with calls on the subject.
Demonstrations, candle-lighting ceremonies and town-hall
meetings are becoming regular affairs. And people on the
street are heatedly discussing the topic."
If there was one thing scarier to corporate journalism than
the series itself, it was the image of a future where Big
Media was unable to control the national agenda.
Irrespective of what the series said, "Dark Alliance" proved
that the stranglehold a relative few East Coast editors and
producers had on what became news could be broken.
"This story suddenly raises suspicions that the Internet has
changed the equation in support of democracy," author
Daniel Brandt ruminated in October 1996 on an Internet e-
zine. "Unless regional newspapers agree to mild-
mannered, regional interest Web sites, all the resources
that the elites have invested in monopolizing the Daily Spin
could end up spinning down the drain."
In this case the blend of the Internet and talk radio had
made the traditional media irrelevant. The public was
marching on without them, and the message got through
clearly to California's top politicians. The L.A. City Council
unanimously approved a resolution calling for a federal

===== PDF PAGE 710 =====
investigation. Both California senators and a half-dozen
congressmen wrote letters to CIA director John Deutch and
Attorney General Janet Reno demanding an official inquiry.
Deutch agreed to conduct one, which infuriated the right-
wing 
Washington Times
. Deutch was lambasted on the
front page by unnamed critics for "his efforts to curry favor
with liberal politicians." And on the editorial page, editor-at-
large Arnaud dc Borchgrave, a "journalist" with a long
history of connections to the intelligence community and the
Contras, fumed that "the same old pro-Marxist CIA bashers
are at it again" and quoted unnamed former colleagues at
"another paper" describing me as "an 'activist' journalist
who would dearly love to see the CIA scuttle itself."
In his column, de Borchgrave claimed Congress had
given the Contras $100 million before the Boland
Amendments went into effect, and chided me for being "too
young to remember that the CIA had no need for illicit
Contra funds in those days." When I appeared on political
talk-show host Chris Matthews's live show on CNBC that
evening, Matthews eagerly sprung de Borchgrave's crazy
timeline on me, demanding to know how I could have
written what I did, given the fact that the Contras had plenty
of money. After Jack White of 
Time
 and I pointed out that
he had his "facts" backward, Matthews, during a
commercial break, began bellowing at his production
assistants, loudly accusing them of attempting to
"sabotage" his show.
Soon after Deutch ordered an internal investigation,
Attorney General Janet Reno—at the urging of Justice
Department inspector general Michael Bromwich—
followed suit.
Finally, the national news media dipped a toe into the icy
waters. 
Newsweek
 devoted an entire page to the story in

===== PDF PAGE 711 =====
late September, calling it "a powerful series" that had some
black leaders "ready to carpet-bomb Langley." 
Time
 that
month called it "the hottest topic in black America" and said
the Web site "provides a plethora of court documents,
recorded interviews and photographs. . .. This is the first
time the Internet has electrified African Americans."
Soon, 
60 Minutes
 called. "Don't talk to anyone else," a
producer told me. "We want this story to ourselves." I got an
identical call from 
Dateline NBC
. I told both of them 1
thought it was unethical for a reporter to refuse to talk to the
press. The 
60 Minutes
 producer said that was the most
ridiculous thing he'd ever heard. 
Dateline
 ended up doing
the story.
Over the next few weeks, we got interview requests from
Jerry Springer, Geraldo Rivera, Tom Snyder, Jesse
Jackson, and Montel Williams. I was on CNN, C-SPAN,
MSNBC, and CBS Morning News. The 
Mercury
 printed up
5,000 copies of the series and they were gone in a matter
of weeks. An employee from the marketing department
was assigned full-time to handle press calls. Each evening
she e-mailed a list of interview requests, and by early
October the list was three pages long and growing. The
London Times
 did a story. 
Le Monde
 in Paris wrote
something. Newspapers in Germany, Belgium, Spain,
Colombia, and Nicaragua called for interviews.
It's hard to imagine how many radio stations there are in
the United States until they start calling. At home, my phone
would begin ringing at 6 A.M. and not stop until 10 PM. Talk
radio was burning up the airwaves, spreading the story and
the Web site address from coast to coast. One day, the hits
on the Web page climbed over 1,000,000. People in
Japan, Bosnia, Germany, and Denmark sent me e-mail.
Meanwhile, we continued advancing the story. I teamed

===== PDF PAGE 712 =====
up with Pamela Kramer, the 
Mercury
's reporter in Los
Angeles, and we wrote several stories about the 1986
police raids on Blandón's house. We came up with the
entire Gordon search warrant, which showed that the police
had several informants telling them that drug money was
going to the Contras. Our sources provided us with the
case file number to the supposedly nonexistent
investigatory file at the L.A. County Sheriff's Office, and
Congresswoman Maxine Waters and her staff marched in
and demanded to see it.
"I told them that the only way they were going to get me
out of their office was to give me the file or arrest me," she
said. She got the file—in it were the police reports about
the search of Ronald Lister's house, his claims of CIA
involvement, and the inventory of strange items seized at
his house.
NBC News did a strong follow-up, finally exposing the
drug-related entries in Oliver North's notebooks to a
national television audience, but it was the only network
attempting to advance the story. The Establishment papers
—the 
New York Times
, the 
Washington Post
, and the 
Los
Angeles Times—
the same newspapers that had so
confidently reported in the 1980s that there was no truth to
these claims of Contra drug trafficking, remained largely
silent.
"Where is the rebuttal? Why hasn't the media rose in
revolt against this story?" an exasperated Bernard Kalb,
former spokesman for the Reagan State Department,
demanded on CNN's 
Reliable Sources
. "It isn't a story that
simply got lost. It, in fact, has resonated and echoed and
the question is where is the media knocking it down, when
that, too, is a journalistic responsibility?"
Kalb's guest, former Reagan Justice Department

===== PDF PAGE 713 =====
spokesman Terry Eastland, clucked that he "would expect
to see this kind of story in a magazine like 
In These Times
,
not in a mainstream newspaper such as the 
San Jose
Mercury News
." No one on Kalb's show bothered to
mention that Eastland had a history of trying to cover up the
Contra drug link. In May 1986, his office had planted a false
story in the 
New York Times
 stating that the Justice
Department had "cleared" the Contras of any involvement
in gun running and drug smuggling, a statement the Justice
Department was later forced to recant.
One question I was frequently asked during radio
appearances was whether I thought the national media
reaction would be different if the series had appeared in
the 
Washington Post
 or the 
New York Times
. My stock
answer was that it hadn't appeared in those newspapers,
because they'd decided in 1986 that there was no story
here. My feeling was that those newspapers' very familiarity
with the story made it more difficult for them to report it.
How could they come back ten years later and admit that
the Contras had been selling cocaine to Americans, when
they'd already assured us it wasn't happening?
In early October, I was in New York City getting ready for
an appearance on the 
Montel Williams Show
, which was
doing a two-day special on the "Dark Alliance" series.
About 2:00 AM., Jerry Ceppos called. The 
Washington
Post
 had just moved a story on the wires. It would be in the
morning edition and it was highly critical of the series. He
asked me to take a look at it and give him my reaction.
"What did they say was wrong?" I asked.
"They don't say any of the facts are wrong," Ceppos said.
"They just don't agree with our conclusions."
"And their evidence is what?"
"A lot of unnamed sources, mainly. It's really a strange

===== PDF PAGE 714 =====
piece. I'll send you a fax of it, and we can talk in the
morning."
The story was headlined "The CIA and Crack: Evidence
is Lacking of Alleged Plot." I laughed. What plot?
The reporters, Walter Pincus and Roberto Suro, wrote
that their investigation "does not support the conclusion that
the CIA-backed Contras—or Nicaraguans in general—
played a major role in the emergence of crack as a narcotic
in widespread use across the United States. Instead, the
available data from arrest records, hospitals, drug
treatment centers and drug user surveys point to the rise of
crack as a broad-based phenomenon driven in numerous
places by players of different nationalities, races and ethnic
groups."
Ah ha. The old tidal wave theory. Here it comes again. I
wondered what "available data" Pincus and Suro had
gathered from the 1982–83 era, the dawn of the L.A. crack
market, since the DEA and NIDA had admitted a decade
earlier that there was no such data.
The story grudgingly and often backhandedly admitted
that the basic facts presented in the series were correct,
and it buried key admissions deep inside, such as the fact
that "the CIA knew about some of these activities and did
little or nothing to stop them." Toward the end Pincus and
Suro confirmed that Meneses and Blandón had met with
Enrique Bermúdez in Honduras, but without disclosing
Bermúdez's relationship with the CIA. CIA agent Adolfo
Calero, whom the 
Post
 euphemistically described as
someone "who worked closely with the CIA," also admitted
to the 
Post
 reporters that he had met with Meneses.
Overall, it was a cleverly crafted piece of disinformation
that would set the stage for the attacks to follow. It falsely
claimed that the series made a "racially charged allegation

===== PDF PAGE 715 =====
that the 'CIA's army' of contras deliberately targeted the
black community in an effort to expand the market for a
cheap form of cocaine." And despite Blandón's testimony
that he sold 200 to 300 kilos of cocaine for Meneses in L.A.
and that all the profits were sent to the Contras, the 
Post
quoted unnamed "law enforcement officials" as saying
"Blandón sold $30,000 to $60,000 worth of cocaine in two
transactions."
The story also dove right through the "window" that
O'Neale had opened at the Ross trial. "If the whole of
Blandón's testimony is to be believed," Pincus and Suro
wrote, "[then there is no connection] between the Contras
and African American drug dealers because Blandón said
he had stopped sending money to the Contras by the time
he met Ross." No mention was made of the DEA reports
and the sheriff's department affidavit that said Blandón was
selling Contra cocaine through 1986, nor of the fact that
Ross had been buying Blandón's cocaine long before he
actually met him. "Moreover," the 
Post
 declared, "the mere
idea that any one person could have played a decisive role
in the nationwide crack epidemic is rejected out of hand by
academic experts and law enforcement officials." But they
identified neither the academic experts nor the law
enforcement officials.
I wrote Ceppos a memo pointing out the holes in the
Post's
 story. "The Pincus piece," I wrote, "is just silly. It's the
kind of story you'd expect from someone who spent three
weeks working on a story, as opposed to 16 months." The
fact that the 
Post
's unnamed "experts" would reject our
scenario "out of hand," I wrote, was the whole problem.
"None of them—whoever they are—has ever studied this
before."
To his credit, Ceppos fired off a blistering letter to the

===== PDF PAGE 716 =====
Post
, pointing out the factual errors in the piece and calling
Pincus's claims of a "racially charged allegation" a
"complete and total mischaracterization."
"The most difficult issue is whether a casual reading of
our series leads to the conclusion that the CIA is directly
responsible for the outbreak of the crack epidemic in Los
Angeles. While there is considerable circumstantial
evidence of CIA involvement with the leaders of this drug
ring, we never reached or reported any definitive
conclusion on CIA involvement," Ceppos wrote. "We
reported that men selling cocaine in Los Angeles met with
people on the CIA payroll. We reported that they received
fundraising orders from people on the CIA payroll. We
reported that the money raised was sent to a CIA-run
operation. But we did not go further and took pains to say
that clearly."
Ceppos posted the letter on the staff bulletin board,
along with a memo defending the series. "We strongly
support the conclusions the series drew and will until
someone proves them wrong. What is even more
remarkable is that FOUR experienced 
Post
 reporters, re-
reporting our series, could not find a single significant
factual error. The 
Post
's conclusions are very different—
and I believe, flawed—but the major facts aren't. I'm not
sure how many of us could sustain such a microscopic
examination of our work and I believe Gary Webb deserves
recognition for surviving unscathed."
The 
Post
 held Ceppos's letter for weeks, ordered him to
rewrite it, and then refused to print it.
Shortly afterward I got an e-mail message from a woman
in southern California. There was a story in the 
Mercury
's
archives that I needed to see, she wrote, and provided a
date and a page number. I sent it to our library and got a

===== PDF PAGE 717 =====
photocopy of the story in the mail a day later. It had run on
February 18, 1967.
"How I Traveled Abroad on CIA Subsidy" was the
headline. The author was Walter Pineus of the 
Washington
Post
.
After disclosures of CIA infiltration of American student
associations had exploded that year, Pincus had written a
long, smug confessional of how, posing as an American
student representative, he'd traveled to several international
youth conferences in the late 1950s and early 1960s,
secretly gathering information for the CIA and smuggling in
anti-Communist propaganda. A CIA recruiter had
approached him, he wrote, and he'd agreed to spy not only
on the student delegations from other countries but on his
American colleagues as well. "I had been briefed in
Washington on each of them," Pincus wrote. "None was
remotely aware of CIA's interest."
This just cannot be true, I thought. The 
Washington
Post
's veteran national security reporter—a former CIA
operative and propagandist? Unwilling to believe this piece
of information until I dug it up for myself, I went to the state
library and got out the microfilm. The story was there. This
was the man who was questioning 
my
 ethics for giving Alan
Fenster questions to ask a government witness about the
Contras and drugs? Jesus. I'd certainly never spied on
American citizens.
Looking into Pincus's background further, I saw that he'd
popped up in another situation where the CIA's reputation
was under attack. In 1975, he'd been the person the 
New
York Times
 selected to review ex-CIA officer Philip Agee's
best-selling expose about the agency, 
CIA Diary
. In an
unfavorable review, Pincus strongly suggested that Agee
was in league with the Cuban intelligence services in a joint

===== PDF PAGE 718 =====
conspiracy to destroy the CIA. (Pincus's previous
association with the CIA was not disclosed by the 
Times
.
He was merely identified as a Washington journalist.)
When the 
Post
 found itself under rare criticism by the CIA
in 1986 for allegedly printing classified information, Pincus
went on the 
MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour
 and stated that his
newspaper wasn't so irresponsible as to pass along
government secrets. The 
Post
 often shielded its readers'
eyes from such things, Pincus asserted, frequently in
consultation with the government. "We've been dealing with
it for a long time and I think we have withheld a great deal of
information," Pincus said. "It ought to be made clear to
people that we, in determining what we're going to do with
a lot of stories, go to the Administration and tell them what
we have and listen to what their arguments are and we then
do make a decision, but we're not making them in the
dark."
Pincus would later play an important role in helping to
impede the Iran-Contra investigation, according to
Independent Counsel Lawrence Walsh. In his memoirs,
Firewall
, Walsh wrote that at a critical moment in the Iran-
Contra probe, Pincus had published a story claiming Walsh
was planning to indict Ronald Reagan, a report that made
worldwide news and reduced Nancy Reagan to tears. "Of
all the sideswipes that we suffered during this period, the
false report that we were considering indicting the nation's
still admired former president hurt us the most," Walsh
wrote. "It infuriated the congressional Republicans, even
some of the moderate ones." Walsh suspected that Pincus
had been fed the story by Boyden Gray, attorney for then
president George Bush.
Gray, Walsh wrote, "had been known to float stories
through persons close to the publisher of the 
Washington

===== PDF PAGE 719 =====
Post
; Pincus had sometimes been asked to write these
stories. I suspected Gray or someone else in the White
House had played a role in disseminating the
misinformation but I had no proof." The 
Post
, of couse,
never acknowledged what history has proven: Pincus's big
scoop was bogus.
The 
L.A. Times
 and the 
New York Times
 struck next. On
October 20, 1996, both ran long stories attacking my
reporting and the series. They took the same tack the
Washington Post
 had several weeks earlier: admitting that
the basic facts were true and then complaining that the
facts didn't mean a thing.
Relying again mostly on unnamed sources, these two
newspapers of record claimed Blandón and Meneses
hadn't had "official positions" with the Contras. Drug money
had been sent, but not millions; it was only tens of
thousands, according to unnamed sources. And experts
scoffed at the notion that one drug ring could have supplied
enough cocaine to feed the tidal wave of crack that
engulfed America, a ridiculous claim I'd never made.
The papers found no need to mention the mass of
historical evidence that supported the series's findings.
Without anything approaching documentation, the papers
just flatly declared I was wrong.
"The crack epidemic in Los Angeles followed no
blueprint or master plan. It was not orchestrated by the
Contras or the CIA. No one trafficker, even kingpins who
sold thousands of kilos and pocketed millions of dollars,
ever came close to monopolizing the drug trade," the 
L.A.
Times
 assured its readers in the lead paragraphs of a
three-day series.
The first part, on the genesis of crack in L.A., was written
by Jesse Katz. Though Katz himself, starting in 1994 and

===== PDF PAGE 720 =====
continuing through the summer of 1996, had repeatedly
referred to Ross as the first and biggest crack dealer in
South Central, the master marketer whose activities were
"key" to the spread of crack in the city, he now found that
Ross was a pygmy who'd had little or nothing to do with the
crack explosion. The earlier stories in the 
Times
, stating
exactly the opposite, were simply ignored.
Instead, Katz trotted out a number of other cocaine
dealers he'd apparently missed the first time he'd written
about the issue: "Tootie" Reese, who'd gone to jail when
the crack market exploded and was never accused of
selling a single rock of crack; the Bryant family, which,
according to earlier 
Times
 stories, never sold crack in
South Central and was "too small for the department's
Major Violators Narcotics Unit in downtown Los Angeles"
to bother with. Katz dredged up "Waterhead Bo" Bennett,
who didn't start selling crack until 1985, and Elrader
Browning, who—again according to the 
L.A. Times—
was
in jail from 1982 to 1985, making it exceedingly difficult for
him to have played any role in the formation of the L.A.
crack market.
"This is like reading 
Pravda
," I told an L.A. radio station.
"History means nothing to these people." Syndicated
columnist Norman Solomon described Katz's story as "a
show trial recantation."
The next day, the 
L.A. Times
 absolved the CIA of any
involvement with Blandón and Meneses. Its authoritative
sources: former CIA director Robert Gates, former CIA
official Vincent Cannistraro, and current CIA director John
Deutch. "Like good little boys and girls, the 
Times
, the
Washington Post
 et al., toddled off to the CIA and asked
the agency if it had ever done such a thing. When the CIA
said 'no' the papers solemnly printed it—just as though the

===== PDF PAGE 721 =====
CIA hadn't previously denied any number of illegal
operations in which it was later caught red-handed,"
columnist Molly Ivins observed.
Buried deep within the 
L.A. Times
 story were
admissions by CIA officials that Contra supporters "were
involved in drug running, but they bought villas and did not
put it into the FDN." And, the story conceded, "the
allegation that some elements of the CIA-sponsored Contra
army cooperated with drug traffickers has been well
documented for years." But the story dismissed the idea
that "millions" went to the Contras from the Nicaraguans'
drug sales. Unnamed sources said it was around $50,000
or $60,000, which caused former Meneses distributor
Rafael Cornejo some mirth.
"Sixty thousand?" he scoffed. "You can raise that in an
afternoon."
According to another unnamed source the 
Times
quoted, Blandón and Meneses were making only $15,000
a kilo in profits.
Unmentioned was Blandón's testimony that he'd sold 200
to 300 kilos for Meneses during the time they were sending
money to the Contras, and his admission that all of the
profits were being sent to the rebels. Using the 
Times
' own
profit figures, that would mean between $3 million and $4.5
million went to the Contras just from Blandón's sales. And
that didn't include the money Meneses's organization—
through Cabezas and Renato Pena in San Francisco—was
sending. Lost in the debate over whether it was millions or
tens of thousands, was the inanity of the idea that a
reasonably accurate number could ever be found in a
business that deals in cash and eschews written records—
it is just as possible that the amounts could have been in
the tens of millions.

===== PDF PAGE 722 =====
"No solid evidence has emerged that either Menescs or
Blandón contributed any money to the rebels after 1984,"
the story declared, ignoring the 1986 sheriff's affidavit and
the 1986 DEA reports. The story also quoted another
unnamed associate who claimed, apparently with a straight
face, that the profit margins in the cocaine business in
1982–84—when coke was selling for $60,000 a kilo—were
just too slim to allow million-dollar donations to the FDN.
What kind of journalist would unquestioningly accept such
a statement, I wondered, looking for a byline. And then I
saw it in a box inside: Doyle McManus, the chief of the 
L.A.
Times
' Washington bureau. That explained it.
In 1984 McManus had played a central role in spreading
the CIA's leak about Barry Seal and the Sandinistas
dealing cocaine, just in time for the Reagan
administration's request to Congress for additional Contra
aid. Oliver North's notebooks contain several references to
conversations McManus was having with the White House
at the time, shortly before and shortly after the details of the
CIA-DEA sting were fed to the press.
"McManus talking to WH." North wrote on July 12, 1984.
"Unhappy with negotiations."
On July 17, 1984, the CIA leak appeared in the
Washington Times
, written by Jeremiah O'Leary, a
longtime Washington press corps reporter described by
investigative reporter Carl Bernstein as having "a valuable
personal relationship" with the CIA in the 1960s. O'Leary
insisted that "they were more helpful to me than I was to
them."
O'Leary's story in the 
Washington Times
, which had
supported the Contras both editorially and financially, gave
McManus the excuse he needed to rush the CIA's leak into
the 
L.A. Times
. According to North's notebooks, McManus

===== PDF PAGE 723 =====
called the White House that morning and informed officials
there that the National Security Council would be cited as
his official source for the information.
"McManus, 
L.A. Times
, says NSC to source claims WH.
has pictures of Borge loading cocaine in Nica," North
wrote.
The following morning, on the front page of the 
Times
,
McManus wrote that "high-ranking members of the
Nicaraguan government have been linked to a scheme
involving three of Colombia's largest cocaine traffickers,
U.S. intelligence sources say." The story declared that
Interior Minister Tomas Borge and Defense Minister
Humberto Ortega of Nicaragua were "among the officials
who the sources said are implicated."
A day later McManus's coauthor, Ronald J. Ostrow,
reported that "U.S. intelligence sources have obtained a
photograph of Borge standing next to Pablo Escobar
Gaviria, one of the two Colombian nationals being sought,
as a plane was being loaded June 25 with duffel bags of
cocaine at the airport in the Nicaraguan capital of
Managua." Unfortunately for the 
Times
, no such photograph
has ever surfaced, and the DEA later admitted that it had
no information implicating high-ranking Sandinista officials
in drug trafficking. The story was a hoax, and McManus had
been a willing participant or a dupe of embarrassing
proportions. So strident in defending U.S. officials against
such charges, the 
Times
 never admitted that it wrongly
accused two Nicaraguan government officials of cocaine
trafficking—solely on the basis of whispers from U.S.
intelligence agents.
McManus and Ostrow later teamed up to refute
allegations of Contra cocaine trafficking in early 1987, just
as the issue was threatening to go national. In a front-page

===== PDF PAGE 724 =====
story bearing the cautionary deck head "No Supporting
Evidence, DEA Says," the 
Times
 reported that a Senate
committee "is investigating reports that Nicaraguan rebels
and their American supporters have helped smuggle
cocaine into the United States, but Drug Enforcement
Administration officials say their agents have found no
evidence to support any of the charges."
The story went through the litany of accusations—
Ilopango, the Frogman case, the Southern Air Transport
shipments to Colombia—devoting a sentence or two to
each one, and surrounding them with abundant denials
from DEA officials and CIA agent Adolfo Calero. The
reporters made no attempt at an independent investigation.
In a prison cell in Boron, California, Contra drug courier
Carlos Cabezas read McManus's story and couldn't believe
his eyes. He banged out a letter to the reporter on February
27, 1987, stating, "I am going to tell you that there was
indeed 'supporting evidence,' hidden by the government."
The receipt of drug money by the Contras, he wrote, "is
absolutely true, at least in my case." Cabezas told
McManus of his trip to Costa Rica with $250,000 and noted
that the FBI made no attempt to stop him, even though he
was traveling with an FBI informant.
He also told McManus the FBI had tape-recorded
conversations "between the former Ambassador of
Nicaragua in Guatemala, Mr. Fernando Sanchez and Troilo
Sanchez and myself. Both of these gentlemen are brother
[sic] of Mr. Adolfo Calero's top aide Mr. Aristides Sanchez.
These conversations were related to drug transactions."
McManus replied two months later, asking Cabezas to
provide him with names and documents to substantiate his
"allegations." And, by the way, he asked, "Can you give me
any further information about Sandinista drug trafficking?"

===== PDF PAGE 725 =====
Cabezas said he sent McManus the documents about the
Contras and never heard another thing.
The unprecedented attacks by three major newspapers
alarmed the 
Mercury
's editors. I was called to a meeting
with Ceppos and the other editors and told that I should quit
trying to advance the story. We needed to start working on
a written response to the other newspapers, he said. I
vehemently disagreed. "The best way to shut them up is to
put the rest of what we know in the paper and keep plowing
ahead," I argued. "Let's run a story about Walter Pincus's
CIA connections. Let's write about how the 
L.A. Times
 has
been booting this story since 1987." I told them of my
discovery that the 
L.A. Times
' Washington bureau had
been sent a copy of the notes found in Ronald Lister's
house in 1990 and had thrown them away. Ceppos
disagreed.
"I don't want to get into a war with them," he said.
Fortunately, both Dawn Garcia and Paul Van
Slambrouck agreed that we should continue developing the
story.
"The best way to answer our critics," Van Slambrouck
told Ceppos, "is to advance the story. Let's go out and get
some more evidence of drug money being sent to the
Contras. Let's get more evidence of this drug ring's
dealings with the Contras." Ceppos relented, authorizing
another reporting trip to Central America. He also assigned
L.A. bureau reporter Pamela Kramer and Pete Carey, an
investigative reporter, to gather information about the start
of the L.A. crack market. He also made another decision:
he was changing the logo that the scries had used on the
Internet and in the reprints. The CIA's seal was coming off.
"What's the point of doing that?" I asked. "We
documented that these traffickers were meeting with CIA

===== PDF PAGE 726 =====
agents. If you change the logo, the rest of the media is
going to accuse us of backing away from the story."
But Ceppos wouldn't budge. Thousands of reprints with
the CIA-crack smoker logo were gathered up and burned
and a CD-ROM version of the series—which had been
pressed and was ready for distribution—was also
destroyed. The 
Post
 and 
L.A. Times
 immediately crowed
that the 
Mercury
 was "retreating" from the series.
Georg and I flew to Costa Rica and began interviewing
police officials, lawyers, prosecutors, and ex-Contras about
Meneses's activities there, fleshing out his role as a DEA
informant and his drug operation's connections to Oliver
North's resupply network on the Southern Front. In
Managua, we interviewed police and Blandón's suspected
money launderer, Orlando Murillo. I flew back and started
writing the follow-up stories; Georg continued hunting for
other members of the Meneses drug ring.
He called me in December 1996, barely able to contain
his excitement. He'd found Carlos Cabezas, who admitted
that he had in fact delivered millions of dollars in drug
money to the Contras. Cabezas had names, dates, and
amounts, Georg said, and pages from his drug ledgers.
He'd identified a CIA agent, Ivan Gómez, as having had
direct knowledge of it all.
"We've got it," Georg cried. "Cabezas is willing to talk on
the record."
A week later, Georg called with more good news.
Enrique Miranda, the former Meneses aide who'd
"escaped" a year earlier, had been found in Miami and
tossed on a plane to Nicaragua. Georg had visited him in
prison, and Miranda started talking. Meneses's relationship
with the CIA and the Contras was deeper than we'd ever
realized, Georg said. "We didn't know how right we were,"

===== PDF PAGE 727 =====
he laughed. "I can't wait to see what the 
Washington Post
does with this." I could have kissed him.
In January 1997, I sent first drafts of four follow-up stories
to Dawn, written as a two-day series. The first part dealt
with Meneses's DEA connections and his Costa Rican
operation, along with the interviews Gcorg had done with
Carlos Cabezas and Enrique Miranda. I wrote a sidebar
about the drug-dealing Costa Rican shrimp company North
and the Cuban CIA operatives were using to funnel aid to
the Contras.
The second part was a story about the parallel
investigations of Contra drug trafficking done in the
summer of 1986 by DEA agent Celerino Castillo at
Ilopango and L.A. County Sheriff's deputy Tom Gordon,
drawing on recently declassified FBI and CIA records at the
National Archives and 3,000 pages of once-secret
documents about the Blandón raids that had just been
released by the L.A. County Sheriff's Office. I also wrote a
sidebar on Joe Kelso's attempts to investigate allegations
of DFA drug trafficking in Costa Rica. Altogether the drafts
ran 16,000 words.
We'd done it. We had an eyewitness, on the record,
who'd delivered the drug money. We had DEA records
saying Blandón had sent money to the Contras far longer
than we'd previously reported. We had a top CIA official
admitting that the agency had reports of drug trafficking at
Ilopango. We had evidence Ronald Lister had been
meeting with the CIA's former head of covert operations. I
expected the editors to be beside themselves with joy.
I heard absolutely nothing. Aside from Dawn, no one
called to tell me they'd read the new stories. No one called
with questions. No one even suggested that we begin
editing them. They sat.

===== PDF PAGE 728 =====
In early February Dawn sent me a copy of the story Pete
Carey and Pam Kramer had written on the origins of the
L.A. crack market. It was, astonishingly, a virtual repeat of
the 
L.A. Times
 stories. It quoted police and drug experts
opining that the Contra drug ring couldn't have supplied
enough cocaine to have had a major impact on the crack
explosion, because crack had surfaced all over the United
States at about the same time. It drew no distinctions
between the L.A. crack market in 1982 and the market in
1986. As far as the story was concerned, it had sprung
from the ground fully formed. Three men, the story
concluded, could not have created a drug epidemic. "The
details of the trio's activities—who did what, and when—
cannot change the overall story of the crack epidemic,
which swept over several U.S. cities in the mid-1980s with
the speed and destructiveness of a tidal wave."
I couldn't believe it. I respected Carey as a reporter—he
and I had coauthored a story in 1989 that had won a
Pulitzer Prize. But here it seemed he'd taken the official
government explanation and swallowed it hook, line, and
sinker.
Carey, the editors, and I met three times in February to
argue about the epidemiology of the L.A. crack market, the
amount of money sent to the Contras, and the level of CIA
involvement. At the end, Carey informed me that he was
canning his crack story. "What I told Ceppos was that we
should just continue to work on this and see what the official
investigations produced," he said. Kramer said much the
same thing. "The problem I had with that story," she told
me, "is that no one knows what really happened back in
those years because nobody was looking at it." Their crack
story never appeared.
With that settled, I plunged back into the investigation. In

===== PDF PAGE 729 =====
March I flew to Florida to interview a former CIA pilot,
Ronald Lippert, who'd flown drop missions for the Contras
in 1986. I spent two days at Lippert's home near Tampa,
poring through his voluminous files and picking his brain.
My interviews with the Canadian Lippert, jailed for ten years
by Fidel Castro for flying explosives into Cuba for the
agency, solved one of the final mysteries of the Southern
Front: how CIA operative John I lull—Bill Casey's friend and
Oliver North's liaison to the Contras—had escaped from
Costa Rica after he was indicted there for drug trafficking in
1989. After being thrown in jail, Hull was let out on bail for
health reasons and vanished.
The DFA office in Costa Rica had gotten Hull out, Lippert
said. Lippert had flown the mission himself, in a decoy
plane hopscotching from Costa Rica to Haiti and then
shuttling Hull into Miami, where Hull hid at the apartment of
Cuban CIA operative and suspected drug dealer
Dagoberto Nunez, who'd helped North and the CIA in
Costa Rica. The DEA officer who'd recruited Lippert for the
escape flight, J. J. Perez, was another Cuban anti-
Communist, Lippert said. In an interview, Hull confirmed I
jppert's story, as did Anthony Ricevuto, the former DEA
inspector who'd investigated Perez's role in Hull's escape.
Ricevuto believed Perez set up Hull's escape on his own
initiative, without official DEA sanction, but Hull disputed
that. "Hell, you don't get DEA pilots and DEA planes to fly
you around without orders coming down from above," Hull
said.
A DEA panel recommended Perez's dismissal, Ricevuto
said, but the Justice Department provided Perez with an
attorney, and much of the case was dismissed on national
security grounds. Perez ended up being suspended for one
day.

===== PDF PAGE 730 =====
Perez would not return phone calls, and the files of his
disciplinary hearings arc scaled as national security
secrets. (The United States refused repeated Costa Rican
requests to extradite Hull, and the drug charges were
eventually dropped. Murder charges that were filed against
him shortly after his escape arc still pending, however; Hull
denied both accusations.)
I was ecstatic. Now we had a story about the DEA aiding
and abetting the escape of a CIA agent accused of drug
trafficking, with the Justice Department intervening to
protect the DEA agent who'd done it. The further I dug, the
more amazing the story became.
And then, just like that, it was over.
Executive editor Jerry Ceppos called me at home on
March 25, 1997, to inform me that he'd made "a very
difficult decision." Mistakes had been made in the series,
he said, and the newspaper was going to print a letter to its
readers saying so.
"Is this a 
fait accompli?
" I asked. "Or do I get a chance to
say something?"
"The decision has been made," Ceppos said. "I'll fax you
a draft of what we're considering."
According to Ceppos's proposed column, we should
have said that Blandón claimed he quit dealing with the
Contras in 1983—something that the editors had cut to
save space. We had "insufficient proof" to say millions went
to the Contras; we should have said it was an estimate. We
should have said that we didn't find proof of involvement of
"CIA decision-makers," whatever that meant. We should
have said Ricky Ross wasn't the only crack supplier in L.A.
—but we hadn't said that. And, finally, Ceppos wrote, the
experts were unanimous in saying that the Contras had not
played a major role in the crack trade and that the series

===== PDF PAGE 731 =====
had "oversimplified" how crack had become a problem.
Strangely, Ceppos had borrowed his conclusions from
Pete Carey's never-published crack story.
I brought a written response to San Jose with me the next
day when I met with Ceppos and the other editors in the
ornate conference room near the editors' offices. "That
'experts' would disagree with the findings of original
research is one of the perils of doing it, as any researcher
can tell you," I wrote. "But just because they have a differing
opinion—and when you get down to it, that's all it is—is a
pretty shoddy reason to take a swan dive on a story.
"Do I think there were no mistakes made in the execution
of this story? No. There were," I wrote. "But this draft
doesn't mention them. If we want to fully air this issue and
be honest with our readers, I request that the following
'failures' be included."
I then described how the editors themselves had
requested an increased emphasis on CIA involvement, how
cutting the series from four parts to three had damaged it,
and how the last-minute assignment of a new editor had
weakened it further. Finally, I asked that the paper print my
own response to this retraction. I thought it needed to be
said that as a reporter, I stood by my story.
Ceppos flushed as he read my memo. "I don't think we
should make this personal," he said uneasily.
"That's easy for you to say," I replied. "You're not the one
who's being hung out to dry here."
"No one's going to hang you out to dry," insisted
Jonathan Krim, the editor who'd been the most strident
critic of the series and, in all likelihood, the author of
Ceppos's apology. "We all got in this together, and we're all
going to get out of this together."
"How can we honestly say that we don't know millions

===== PDF PAGE 732 =====
went to the Contras, or that the CIA didn't know about this,
when we've got an eye-witness telling us that he personally
gave drug money to a CIA agent? What are we going to do
about all that other inconvenient information in the follow-
ups? We're going to look awful goddamned stupid running
this apology and then printing stories that directly contradict
it."
The other editors looked at the table uncomfortably.
"We 
are
 going to print those other stories, aren't we?"
Ceppos shook his head slightly.
"We're not?" I asked incredulously. "Why not?"
"They're a quarter turn of the screw," he said. "We're not
going to print anything else unless it's a major advance."
I exploded. "You think the fact that the head of this Contra
drug ring was working for the DEA is a quarter turn of the
screw?" I shouted. "You don't think the fact that the DEA
helped an accused CIA drug trafficker escape criminal
charges is a major advance? You've got to be kidding me.
Are we even going to pursue this story any more?"
"No," Ceppos said.
"Let me get this straight," I said. "We're killing the other
stories. We're not going to do any more investigation of this
topic. And we're going to run this mealymouthed column
that pretends we don't know anything else, tuck our tails
between our legs, and slink off into the sunset. That's what
you've got in mind?"
"You and I have very different views of this situation," he
said quietly.
"You got that right."
The result of the stormy meeting was that Ceppos
rewrote his column, removing the obvious factual errors but
leaving the rest virtually unchanged.
"No matter how many times the words and phrases are

===== PDF PAGE 733 =====
tweaked, the end result is still a sham," I responded in a
memo. "You're sitting on information that supports what I
wrote and pretending to be unaware of it."
Again I objected, and again Ceppos recast it, this time
as a personal column and, at Dawn's insistence, disclosing
that I disagreed with him. He also inserted some
statements that acknowledged that the series was largely
accurate and that the basic elements of it were solidly
documented. And, to my shock, he reversed his earlier
decision to kill the follow-up stories. Dawn asked me to
prepare a memo on what we still needed to do to get the
stories in shape because Ceppos was now leaning toward
running at least part of them.
At a final meeting before the column ran, I predicted that
the mainstream press would read the column as a
retraction, one that covered everything the series had
revealed. "You run this, and all we'll hear is, '
The Mercury
News
 has admitted it isn't true! The Contras weren't dealing
cocaine! The CIA had nothing to do with it!' And you know
as well as I do, that's not true."
"Well," shrugged Krim, "you're the one who's always
saying that we can't be held responsible for what other
people read into things."
There it is, I thought. The truth. They 
want
 the public to
think there was nothing here. They want it all to go away.
They're tired of fighting the current of mainstream opinion,
tired of being journalistic outcasts for standing by a story
that, as Jesse Jackson had put it, "threatened the moral
authority of the government."
In nine months, we had gone full circle and crawled into
bed with the rest of the apologists who wanted the CIA drug
story put back in its grave once and for all.
"Have you got anything else to say?" Ceppos asked.

===== PDF PAGE 734 =====
"Yeah. You're taking a dive on a true story, and one day
you're going to find that out."
Ceppos's column ran on May 11, 1997, and if there was
ever a chance of getting to the bottom of the CIA's
involvement with drug traffickers, it died on that day. The
New York Times
, which hadn't found the original series
newsworthy enough to mention, splashed Ceppos's
apology on its front page. An editorial lauded Ceppos for
his courage and declared that he'd set a brave new
standard for dealing with "egregious errors."
Howard Kurtz, the media critic for the 
Washington Post
,
called for a comment. "It's nauseating," I told him. I had
never been more disgusted with my profession in my life. It
wasn't because such outrages were unknown in the
newspaper business. They weren't. Shortly before I arrived
at the 
Plain Dealer
, the paper printed a front-page
retraction of a story that had appeared more than a year
earlier, revealing that former Teamsters Union president
Jackie Presser was an FBI informant.
Presser was indeed an informant, as the FBI confirmed
years later. But truth had taken a back seat to realpolitik.
Court records later revealed that the paper had been
pressured into retracting the story by New York mob boss
Anthony "Fat Tony" Salerno, who'd asked his attorney, Roy
Cohn, to intercede with the Newhouse family, which owned
the 
Plain Dealer
.
Whether similar pressures were applied to Ceppos from
outside the newspaper is something I do not know, nor do I
particularly want to. I would prefer to believe the theory
advanced by my editor, Dawn Garcia, who suggested that
Ceppos's treatment for prostate cancer in the winter of
1996–97 had been a factor. That extended illness,
combined with the pressure from other editors, had taken

===== PDF PAGE 735 =====
their toll, she believed.
It's a plausible explanation, because there really were
only two ways the newspaper could have gone with "Dark
Alliance" at that point—forward or backward. The series
had created such a superheated controversy that it had
become impossible to simply do nothing. Ceppos, who had
stood by the story bravely at key moments, simply may not
have had the endurance, at that period of his life, to ride the
story out.
If the 
Mercury
 continued pursuing the story and
publishing follow-ups, editor Jon Krim worried in a memo,
the editors needed to be ready "to deal with the firestorm of
criticism that is sure to follow." The other way out was to
back out: confess to some "shortcomings," take some
quick lumps, and move on, which is the course Ceppos
chose. It was certainly the course of least resistance, as the
happy reaction of the national media proved.
Had I done what my editors wanted—kept my mouth shut
and gone along with the charade—I would probably still be
working at the newspaper. But I had no desire to hang
around a place that was so easily cowed by the opinions of
others. A reporter's job was to pursue the truth, I still
believed, no matter how unpopular that pursuit became.
And the truth of the matter, as I saw it, was that my editors
were trying to rewrite history.
When Howard Kurtz asked me what I intended to do next,
I told him about the stories the 
Mercury News
 was
suppressing.
"We've got four more stories sitting in the can, and I
intend to try and get them in the newspaper," I said. "I've
been told that we're still going to run them."
Kurtz called me back a short time later. "I just got off the
phone with Jerry Ceppos, and he says you never turned in

===== PDF PAGE 736 =====
any stories. He said the only thing you gave him was a
memo and some notes."
"Notes?" I laughed. "I've never given an editor notes in
my life. I turned in four stories in January, and I know he's
read them because we've discussed them. Maybe you
misunderstood."
Kurtz sounded confused. "They're not notes?"
"Of course not. They've got beginnings, middles, and
ends."
"Those are stories where I come from," he said.
The controversy raged for another month, and the issue
gradually became what Ceppos reportedly had dreaded:
he was being accused of suppressing information. He was
covering things up. Talk radio had a field day. In
Wishington, DJ Joe Madison, who'd been making hay with
the story for months, urged the listeners of his 50,000-watt
station to call Ceppos and demand that he print the stories
he was suppressing. Letters and e-mail from outraged
readers began pouring in.
Ceppos, who'd not spoken to me since his column ran,
called me at home in early June. He was killing the follow-
ups, he shouted. I was off the story for good. He couldn't
trust me anymore because I'd "aligned myself with one side
of the issue."
"Which side is that, Jerry? The side that wants the truth to
come out?"
He wasn't getting into a debate, he told me. I was to
report to his office in two days "to discuss your future at the
Mercury News
."
It was a very one-sided discussion. Reading from a
prepared statement, Ceppos told me that my editors had
lost faith in me. I needed closer supervision, which I couldn't
get in Sacramento. I needed to regain their faith and their

===== PDF PAGE 737 =====
trust, and the only way to do that was to accept a transfer to
the main office in San Jose. If I refused, I would be
transferred against my will to the West Bureau in Cupertino,
the newspaper's version of Siberia—a somnolent training
ground for new reporters and a pasture for older ones
who'd fallen from favor. It made little sense, because the
reporters there had no direct supervision either. Whichever
I decided, I had to report in thirty days.
And, by the way, Ceppos said, Pete Carey was going to
take over the Contra drug story, and I was to give him all the
cooperation he requested.
That night I sat down with my wife, Sue, and my children
and gave them the news. In one month, I was going to have
to start working in Cupertino, 150 miles away. I'd have to
drive there on Mondays and come home on Fridays. In the
meantime, I'd fight the transfer through the Newspaper
Guild.
My six-year-old daughter looked at me strangely. "Are
you still going to sleep here?"
"No, I won't be able to," I told her. "I have to live in another
place during the week. But I'll be home on the weekends."
She got up, went into her room, and closed the door.
As the deadline approached, I became despondent and
told my wife I didn't feel comfortable leaving her and the
kids alone. Georg had been getting death threats in
Nicaragua, I told her. His wife's law office had been
burglarized and ransacked twice; the power lines to his
house had been cut, and his brother-in-law had been
threatened by armed thugs. He-was leaving the country,
taking his wife to his native Switzerland.
"It's too dangerous to leave you and the children alone," I
told her. "Maybe I should just quit." I didn't want to work
there anymore anyway.

===== PDF PAGE 738 =====
"That's just what they want you to do," she said
indignantly. "Don't you dare give in to those cowards. I
know it's a lousy situation, but we'll just have to put up with it
for a while. The Guild says you'll win the arbitration."
Winning the arbitration seemed very likely, because the
union contract the newspaper had with the Newspaper
Guild, which represented much of the staff, expressly
prohibited transfering reporters out of the bureaus against
their will. But it would take months for a hearing to occur.
And then what? I'd get my old job back working for the
same editors? It hardly seemed worth the fight.
On the other hand, going through with it held its own
attractions. Every day that I showed up at the Cupertino
bureau would be an act of defiance.
Reluctantly I went, spending July and part of August in the
Cupertino bureau under protest. I was assigned such
pressing matters as the death of a police horse, clothing
collections for Polish flood victims, and summer school
computer classes. I went on a byline strike, refusing to put
my name on any story written while I was working under
protest.
To the chagrin of my editors, who were under orders to
keep me away from any decent assignments, I turned a
press release rewrite about a San Jose landfill into a front-
page story. It was the last piece I wrote for the 
Mercury—
a
page-one story with no one's name on it, which reportedly
infuriated Ceppos.
Occasionally, Pete Carey would call with a question or
two. He wasn't having much luck corroborating Carlos
Cabezas's statements, he told me. He'd been trying to
locate the Venezuelan CIA agent Cabezas said he worked
with, Ivan Gómez, but couldn't. He'd tried directory
assistance in Caracas and complained about how many

===== PDF PAGE 739 =====
Ivan Gómezes there were in the phone book. I felt
saddened that my two-year investigation had come to this.
I never heard another word from him about it, and none of
the follow-up stories ever ran. On November 19, 1997, the
Mercury News
 agreed to settle my arbitration but,
amusingly, required me to sign a confidentiality agreement
swearing that I would never disclose its terms. Nineteen
years after becoming a reporter, I quit the newspaper
business.
Bob Parry, the AP reporter who first broke the Contra
drug story in 1985, sent me a note of condolence. "Like
you, I grew up in this business thinking our job really was to
tell the public the truth," he wrote. "Maybe that was the
mission at one time. Maybe there was that Awakening in
the 1970s with Watergate, the Pentagon Papers, the CIA
scandals, etc.
"But something very bad happened to the news media in
the 1980s. Part of it was the 'public diplomacy' pressures
from the outside. But part of it was the smug, snotty,
sophomoric crowd that came to dominate the national
media from the inside. These characters fell in love with
their power to define reality, not their responsibility to
uncover the facts. By the 1990s, the media had become the
monster.
"I wish it weren't so. All I ever wanted to do was report
and write interesting stories—while getting paid for it. But
that really isn't possible anymore and there's no use crying
over it.
"Hang in there," he concluded. "You're not alone."

===== PDF PAGE 740 =====
EPILOGUE
"The damage that has been done"
A
 few days after my resignation was announced, the CIA
leaked the conclusion of an internal investigation to the 
L.A.
Times
 and the 
Mercury News
. This exhaustive probe,
according to unnamed sources, had absolved the CIA of
any wrongdoing.
Though the reporters had no idea what the report actually
said, since it wasn't released, and none of the officials
whispering in their ears was willing to have his name used,
they dutifully reported that there was no evidence the CIA
knew anything about the dealings of Danilo Blandón,
Norwin Meneses, or Freeway Ricky Ross. I tried to imagine
what the reaction would have been had those same
reporters gone to their editors with unnamed sources citing
unobtainable reports claiming the CIA 
was
 involved in drug
trafficking. Journalistic standards can be wonderfully
flexible when necessary.
A month later, with the Washington press corps on a
scavenger hunt for a dress stained with President Clinton's
semen, the declassified version of the CIA report was
officially released. It showed that the CIA had known exactly
what Norwin Meneses was doing, and had directly
intervened in the Frogman case to prevent the public from
learning of the relationship between CIA assets and
cocaine traffickers. Naturally, those details went largely
unreported. But CIA director George Tenet was quoted
extensively, lamenting that "the damage to the CIA's
reputation may never be fully reversed.
"The allegations made have left an indelible impression

===== PDF PAGE 741 =====
in many Americans' minds that the CIA was somehow
responsible for the scourge of drugs in our inner cities."
Still, it was hard to avoid that impression after CIA
Inspector General Fred P. Hitz appeared before the House
Intelligence Committee in March 1998 to update Congress
on the progress of his continuing internal investigation.
"Let me be frank about what we are finding," Hitz
testified. "There are instances where CIA did not, in an
expeditious or consistent fashion, cut off relationships with
individuals supporting the Contra program who were
alleged to have engaged in drug trafficking activity." The
lawmakers fidgeted uneasily. "Did any of these allegations
involve trafficking in the United States?" asked
Congressman Norman Dicks of Washington. "Yes," Hitz
answered. Dicks flushed.
And what, Hitz was asked, had been the CIA's legal
responsibility when it learned of this?
That issue, Hitz replied haltingly, had "a rather odd
history. . .the period of 1982 to 1995 was one in which
there was no official requirement to report on allegations of
drug trafficking with respect to non-employees of the
agency, and they were defined to include agents, assets,
non-staff employees." There had been a secret agreement
to that effect "hammered out" between the CIA and U.S.
Attorney General William French Smith in 1982, he
testified.
A murmur coursed through the room as Hitz's admission
sunk in. No wonder the U.S. government could blithely insist
there was "no evidence" of Contra/CIA drug trafficking. For
thirteen years—from the time Blandón and Meneses began
selling cocaine in L.A. for the Contras—the CIA and Justice
had a gentleman's agreement to look the other way.
In essence, the CIA wouldn't tell and the Justice

===== PDF PAGE 742 =====
Department wouldn't ask. According to the CIA's Inspector
General, the agreement had its roots in something called
Executive Order No. 12333, which Ronald Reagan signed
into law in 1981, the same week he authorized the CIA's
operations in Nicaragua. Reagan's order served as his
Administration's rules on the conduct of U.S. intelligence
agencies around the world.
The new rules were the same as the Carter
Administration's old rules, with one glaring exception: there
was a difference in how crimes committed by spies were to
be reported. There was to be a new procedure. For the first
time, the CIA's Inspector General noted, the rules "required
the head of an intelligence agency and the Attorney
General to agree on crimes reporting procedure." In effect,
the CIA now had veto power over anything the Justice
Department might propose.
In early 1982 CIA director William Casey and Attorney
General William French Smith inked a formal Memorandum
of Understanding that spelled out which spy crimes were to
be reported to the Justice Department. It was same as the
Carter Administration's policy, but again, with one or two
interesting differences.
First, crimes committed by people "acting for" an
intelligence agency no longer needed to be reported to the
Justice Department. Only card-carrying CIA officers were
covered. Then, in case there were any doubts left, drug
offenses were removed from the list of crimes the CIA was
required to report. So, for example, if a cocaine dealer
"acting for" the CIA was involved in drug trafficking, no one
needed to know.
The two CIA lawyers behind those rule changes insist
they did not occur through incompetence or neglect; they
were carefully and precisely crafted. Bernard Makowka, the

===== PDF PAGE 743 =====
CIA attorney who negotiated the changes, told the CIA
Inspector General that "the issue of narcotics violations was
thoroughly discussed between [the Department of Justice]
and CIA. . .someone at DOJ became uncomfortable at the
prospect of the Memorandum of Understanding not
including any mention of narcotics."
Daniel Silver, the CIA attorney who drafted the
agreement, said the language "was thoroughly
coordinated" with the Justice Department, which wasn't
thrilled. "The negotiations over the Memorandum of
Understanding involved the competing interests of DOJ
and CIA," Silver explained. "DOJ's interest was to establish
procedures while CIA's interest was to ensure that [it]
protected CIA's national security equities." As is now clear,
the CIA interest carried the day.
So how did ignoring drug crimes by secret agents
protect the CIA's national security "equities"? CIA lawyer
Makowka explained: "CIA did not want to be involved in law
enforcement issues."
I.F. Magazine
 editor Robert Parry, who remains one of
the few journalists exploring the CIA drug issue, believes
the Casey-French agreement smacks of premeditation. It
was signed just as the CIA was getting into both the Contra
project and the conflict in Afghanistan, he notes, and it
opened one very narrow legal loophole that effectively
protected narcotics traffickers working on behalf of
intelligence agencies. "That could only have been done for
one purpose," Parry argues. "They were anticipating what
eventually happened. They knew drugs were going to be
sold." The CIA denies it.
The admission that there had been a secret deal
between the CIA and the Just Say No Administration to
overlook Agency-related drug crimes elicited mostly yawns

===== PDF PAGE 744 =====
from the news media. The 
Washington Post
 stuck the story
deep inside the paper, further back than they had buried
the findings of the Kerry Committee's Senate investigation
in the 1980s, which officially disclosed the Contras' drug
trafficking. The 
Los Angeles Times
 printed nothing.
A notable exception to this trend was the 
New York
Times
, which was leaked a few of the conclusions of the
CIA's then-classified investigation into Contra drug dealing
by Inspector General Fred Hitz. On July 17, 1998, it
reported on its front page that the Agency had working
relationships with dozens of suspected drug traffickers
during the Nicaraguan conflict and that CIA higher-ups
knew it.
"The new study has found that the Agency's decision to
keep those paid agents, or to continue dealing with them in
some less formal relationship, was made by top officials at
headquarters," the 
Times
 reported.
But unlike most 
New York Times
 front page exclusives,
the CIA story was not slavishly snapped up by the TV
networks or national media. Once again, the 
Los Angeles
Times
 found nothing newsworthy about it and the
Washington Post
 concurred. The release three months
later of Hitz's 400-page report—filled with horrifying
examples of CIA collusion with assorted dopers, money
launderers, and drug pilots—was treated as old news,
despite the fact that most of the information had never been
reported before. (Incredibly enough, the 
San Jose Mercury
News
 decided that the report actually exonerated the CIA
and proved that no top CIA officials were aware of Contra
trafficking.)
The lack of any visible public outrage to the CIA's
confession that it had worked cheek by jowl with more than
50 suspected drug traffickers may have emboldened some

===== PDF PAGE 745 =====
of the CIA veterans of that era. A few months later, in
December 1998, when former Panamanian dictator
Manuel Noriega appealed for a reduction in his 40-year
prison sentence for drug trafficking and money laundering
in early 1999, he came armed with an influential witness:
Donald Winters, the former chief of CIA operations in
Panama. Winters told Noriega's judge that the convicted
doper had performed valuable work for the U.S.
government in Central America during the 1980s and
should be given a break.
Though federal prosecutors called him "an international
drug trafficker and money launderer of unequaled
proportions," Winters offered a much kinder description of
the ex-strongman's work. "Noriega brokered deals with
South American leaders, acted as a liaison to Cuba's Fidel
Castro, provided details on guerrilla and terrorist activities,
and even gave the former Shah of Iran a safe haven. There
were specific instances when the U.S. government worked
through General Noriega. These were major, major
considerations," Winters insisted.
The former U.S. Ambassador to Panama, Arthur Davis,
testified that Noriega did "a lot of good work, not just for the
United States but for the people of Panama." Noriega's
judge apparently agreed. In March 1999 his jail sentence
was slashed from 40 years to 10 years, making eligible for
parole in less than a year. No one explained why, if Noriega
had been such a great and valuable friend to the U.S.
government, it had been necessary to invade his country
and haul him to the United States in chains, killing scores of
American soldiers and Panamanian citizens in the
process.
Two weeks later, civil rights lawyers in Oakland and Los
Angeles filed a class action suit against the CIA and the

===== PDF PAGE 746 =====
Department of Justice, charging that the secret 1982
agreement between CIA director William Casey and
Attorney General William French Smith was illegal and led
"to policies protecting, rather than stopping, drug trafficking
in crack cocaine." Filed on behalf of the residents of a half-
dozen inner-city neighborhoods ravaged by crack, the
lawsuit argued that the agreement "interfered with law
enforcement's efforts to thwart the importation of crack
cocaine." As a result, the plaintiffs declared, their
neighborhoods gradually became "unlivable. . .dangerous,
impoverished, and inadequately supported by social
services." Legal experts gave the suit little chance of
success. As the Christic Institute found out in 1986 when it
brought its historic civil racketeering case against the CIA
operatives running the Contra war in Costa Rica, the
federal courts can be a brutal arena in which to fight U.S.
government policy.
One of the questions I have been asked many times
since this story broke is this: Now that the facts are out
there, what can we do? My answer, depressing and cynical
as it may be, is always the same. Not much. Not now. And
certainly not until the American public and its
Congressional representatives regain control of the CIA
and shred the curtain of secrecy that keeps us from
discovering these crimes of state until it is too late.
Perhaps when the government officials who presided
over these outrages are safely in their crypts, and their
apologists and cheerleaders are buried with them, future
historians can finally call these men to account for the
miseries they caused. Even if that's all that ever happens, it
will be fitting and just, because the favorable judgment of
history is ultimately what they craved.

===== PDF PAGE 747 =====
NOTES ON SOURCES
B
ecause I find footnotes extraordinarily distracting, I have
elected not to use them. The information is sourced in the
chapter notes in the order of its appearance in the text;
each note is preceded by the page number it refers to, and
an identifying phrase.
This book is based primarily upon public record sources:
declassified U.S. government documents, mostly from the
files of Iran-Contra Independent Counsel Lawrence Walsh
at the National Archives; unclassified records released
under the Freedom of Information Act (a mere shadow of
what it once was); DEA tapes and DEA and FBI reports
released to various defense attorneys under pre-trial
discovery; congressional reports and hearing transcripts;
transcripts and pleadings in state and federal courts
(mainly in California and Florida); corporate records from
California, Florida, and Nicaragua; records of the
Nicaraguan Supreme Court; and reports of the Costa
Rican Legislative Assembly and the Costa Rican
Organization de Investigation Judicial
 (OIJ), a law
enforcement body similar in function to the FBI in the United
States.
In the text, when the words "said in an interview" are
used, it refers to an interview done by the author and/or his
colleague Georg Hodel. Interviews conducted by other
journalists, when more than one direct quotation is used,
are noted in the text. In other cases, the source of the
quotation is listed in the chapter notes.
The use of unidentified sources has been kept to an
absolute minimum because I do not trust unsourced
information as a general rule. If a source is unidentified, it

===== PDF PAGE 748 =====
was at the source's insistence, and I have attempted to
identify the source's position as specifically as possible. At
times, it may seem as if the sources are unnamed (i.e.,
"aquaintances say"), but normally their names will be
disclosed in the chapter notes.
After the first mention, the following abbreviations are
used in the chapter notes:
FBIS—Foreign Broadcast Information Service, a
remarkable resource provided by our more useful friends at
the CIA. FBIS microfiche is available at federal repository
libraries across the country.
LACSO reports—Los Angeles County Sheriff's Office
exhibits and interviews, most of them tape-recorded,
conducted by investigators for Sheriff Sherman Block in the
fall of 1996. In the text, when someone is quoted as having
"told police," "told police investigators," or "told L.A.
detectives," the quotation or information can safely be
assumed to have come from the LACSO reports and
appendices. Those reports are summaries of interviews
and usually not the subject's verbatim statement. However, I
have assumed that the sheriffs accurately reported the
spirit of the subject's statement. When possible the
accuracy was checked with the subject.
CIA-IG—Cables, interviews, and summaries contained in
the Central Intelligence Agency Inspector General Report of
Investigation, 
Allegations of Connections between CIA
and the Contras in Cocaine Trafficking to the United
States
 (96–0143–IG), Vol. 1, 
The California Story
, January
29, 1998, Frederick P. Hitz, Inspector General. This is a
declassified version of a much longer report released to the
House and Senate Intelligence Committees, which has
never been released to the public. From my reading of the
declassified version, it is obvious that considerable

===== PDF PAGE 749 =====
information has been censored. In the text, when a source
is quoted as having "told the CIA," "told CIA inspectors," or
"told CIA investigators," it is almost always a reference to
an interview summarized in this report. Again, I can only
assume the CIA related the interviews accurately and fairly,
since the actual transcripts have not been made public.
CIA-IG2—Volume 2: 
The Contra Story
, L. Britt Snyder,
Inspector General, October 8, 1998. This is the second
volume of the above report, released by Fred Hitz's
successor. Like the first volume, it was heavily censored
before it was made public.
DOJ-IG
—The CIA-Contra-Crack Cocaine Controversy:
A Review of the Justice Department's Investigations and
Prosecutions
, Michael Bromwich, Inspector General, U.S.
Department of Justice, Washington D.C., December 1997.
This report, which was censored and withheld from public
release for six months on orders of Attorney General Janet
Reno (allegedly for Danilo Blandón's protection), focused
on the many fruitless investigations of the Contra traffickers
by the Drug Enforcement Administration and Federal
Bureau of Investigation. Quotes attributed to the Justice
Department's Inspector General are taken from this report.
U.S. v. James—
The March 1996 criminal trial of Curtis
James, Ricky Ross, and Michael McLaurin, 95 CR 353H,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of California. If Danilo
Blandón is quoted directly in the text, it is a quotation taken
from either the court reporter's transcript of his sworn
testimony as a government witness or the actual tape of his
testimony, as I found there were sometimes substantive
differences. In many cases, quotations from Ricky Ross
came from his sworn testimony in 
U.S. v. James
, though
other quotations came from his interviews with the author
and/or other journalists. Those other sources are separately

===== PDF PAGE 750 =====
noted.
Blandón GJ—The February 1994 testimony of Danilo
Blandón before a federal grand jury for the Northern District
of California, taken as part of a federal investigation of
Norwin Meneses. At the time of this testimony, Blandón
was cooperating with the government. In the text, if Blandón
is quoted as having "told a grand jury," or "testified
secretly," it is this testimony to which the text is referring.
CR Pros
—The Public Prosecutor's Investigation on "La
Penca" Case
, San Jose, Costa Rica, December 26, 1989.
This was a report of an investigation by Jorge Chavarria
Guzman, then the prosecuting attorney for San Jose.
Chavarria investigated the attempted assassination of
Contra commander Eden Pastora at the La Penca rebel
camp on May 30, 1984, but he also examined a host of
other cases of Costa Rican-based Contras involved in drug
trafficking. Included as exhibits are numerous court records
from Costa Rican criminal cases. In the text, if information
is attributed to "a Costa Rican prosecutor's report," it is a
reference to this report.
CR Assy 2
—Segundo Informe de la Comision sobre el
Narcotrafico, Asamblea Legislativa
, August 1989. This is
the second report of the Costa Rican Legislative
Assembly's Commission on Narcotics Trafficking, which
examined the explosion of cocaine trafficking in that country
during the mid-1980s. After studying the involvement of
Contras and U.S. officials with illegal arms running and
drug trafficking, the commission recommended that former
ambassador Lewis Tambs, CIA station chief Joe
Fernandez, Lt. Col. Oliver North, former national security
adviser John Poindexter, and former air force general
Richard Secord be forever denied entry to Costa Rica, a
recommendation that was adopted by Costa Rican

===== PDF PAGE 751 =====
president Oscar Arias and largely ignored by the U.S.
media.
Kerry Report
—Drugs, Law Enforcement and Foreign
Policy
 (Washington, DC.: Government Printing Office,
1988), 1,166-page report by Sen. John Kerry's
Subcommittee on Terrorism, Narcotics and International
Operations (Kerry Committee), December 1988.
Prologue: "It was like they didn't want
to know"
piece. . .about a convicted cocaine trafficker: Gary
Webb, "Blunder Jeopardizes Drug Cases," 
San Jose
Me rcury News
, June 11, 1995.
The Forfeiture Racket: Gary Webb, "The Forfeiture
Racket," 
San Jose Mercury News
, August 29, 1993;
and Webb, "The Money Tree," 
San Jose Mercury
News
, August 30, 1993.
Jim Doyle, "4 Indicted in Prison Breakout Plot," 
San
Francisco Chronicle
, April 29, 1994.
Seth Rosenfeld, "Federal Jailbreak Plot Charged,"
San Francisco Examiner
, April 19, 1994.
"it is not the first time": Howard Mintz, "Prosecutor's
Missteps Place Prison Escape Case in Jeopardy,"
San Francisco Daily Recorder
, February 1996.
"Ask about the cocaine smuggling": "Protesters
Interrupt North with Contra Allegations," 
Los Angeles
Times
, July 9, 1987. The men, Michael Bardoff and
Michael Kreis, were later fined $200 but refused to pay
it.
People did more time for burglary: In 1992 the average
federal prison sentence for burglary was 52 months.
For pornography, it was 41 months; for robbery, 101

===== PDF PAGE 752 =====
For pornography, it was 41 months; for robbery, 101
months; and 43 months for assault (
Sourcebook of
Criminal Justice Statistics
 [Washington, D.C.:
Government Printing Office, 1996], 445).
Though his court files say Blandón was sentenced to
28 months, it's not certain he was in jail all that time.
When U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters of Los Angeles asked
the Bureau of Prisons in 1996 for his prison records
from San Diego, the San Diego facility reported it had
no record of him ever being confined there.
strongly suggested that Meneses, too, had been
dealing: Jonathan Marshall, "Nicaraguans Arrest Ex-
Bay Man Linked to Cocaine, Contras," 
San Francisco
Chronicle
, December 16, 1991; and Seth Rosenfeld,
"Nicaraguan Exile's Cocaine-Contra Connections,"
San Francisco Examiner
, June 23, 1986.
1987 FBI report, 1987 FBI interviews: FBI 302,
Record of Interview with Dennis Ainsworth
, San
Francisco, January 21, 1987, file IC 600–1, sub. F-9;
Office of Independent Counsel, 
Record of Interview,
Dennis William Ainsworth
, Berkeley, Calif., March 5,
1987, file IC 600–1, sub. F-18.
1. "A pretty secret kind of thing"
"let's talk like friends": Anastasio Somoza, 
Nicaragua
Betrayed
 (Boston: Western Islands Publishers, 1980),
333–55; this autobiography also provides a detailed
chronology of Somoza's last days in power. His
historical relationship and cooperation with the CIA are
explained on 169–75.
Additional conversations between Somoza and
Pezzullo in Anthony Lake, 
Somoza Falling
 (New York:
Houghton Mifflin, 1989), 231–36.

===== PDF PAGE 753 =====
vaunted National Guard collapsed: Details of the
collapse of the National Guard and the final days of the
Somoza regime were drawn from the June–July 1979
Central American reports of the Foreign Broadcast
Information Service.
"Recent developments concerning the state of
cocaine": Tennyson Guyer, quoted in House Select
Committee on Narcotics Abuse and Control, 
Cocaine,
a Major Drug Issue of the Seventies: Hearings before
the House of Representatives
, 96th Cong., 1st sess.;
the hearings took place July 24 and 26 and October
10, 1979.
"rediscovery of cocaine in the Seventies": Psychiatrist
Ronald Siegel, quoted in Dr. Gabriel Nahas, 
Cocaine:
The Great White Plague
 (Middlebury, Vt.: Paul
Eriksson Publisher, 1989), 129.
"My first ten years": Jerald Smith, interview by author.
And that brought Byck: Dr. Robert Byck, interview by
author.
Dr. Raul Jeri had been insisting: Jeri reported his
conclusions in "Consumption of Dangerous Drugs by
Members of the Armed Forces and the Police in
Peru," 
Rev. Sanid. Minist. Int
. 37 (1976): 104–12;
"The Syndrome of Coca Paste," 
Rev. Sanid. Minist.
Int
. 39 (1978): 1–18; and "Further Experience with the
Syndromes Produced by Coca Paste Smoking," in
Cocaine 1980: Proceedings of the Interamerican
Seminar on Medical and Sociological Aspects of
Coca and Cocaine
 (Lima, Peru: Pacific Press, 1980).
Dr. Nils Noya. . .began making similar claims: Noya,
"Coca and Cocaine, a Perspective from Bolivia," in
The International Challenge of Drug Abuse
, NIDA
research monograph no. 19 (Washington, D.C.:

===== PDF PAGE 754 =====
Government Printing Office, 1978), 82–90.
some of America's leading researchers: An excellent
summary of early research reports can be found in R.
K. Siegel, "Cocaine Smoking," 
Journal of
Psychoactive Drugs
, winter 1982, 301–10.
"Immediately after smoking": "Pure Cocaine Proves
Devastating," 
Journal
, January 1, 1978, 1; cited in
Siegel, "Cocaine Smoking," 304.
"fairly rudimentary proposal": Dr. David Paly, interview
by author. Paly's study was published as "Cocaine
Plasma Levels after Cocaine Paste Smoking," in
Cocaine 1980
, 106–10.
"a growing trend": Ronald K. Siegel, letter to the editor,
New England Journal of Medicine
 300, no. 7
(February 15, 1979), 373. Siegel was interviewed by
the author.
"increased happiness and contentment with life":
Ronald K. Siegel, "Cocaine: Recreational use and
intoxication," in 
Cocaine 1977
, NIDA research
monograph no. 13 (Washington, D.C.: Government
Printing Office, 1977).
"most expensive of all mood changers": Dr. Sidney
Cohen, "Coca Paste and Freebase: New Fashions in
Cocaine Use," 
Drug Abuse and Alcoholism
Newsletter
 (Vista Hill Foundation) 9, no.3 (April 1980).
"'I have had to sell even my clothes'": Gregorio
Aramayo and Mario Sanchez, in 
Cocaine 1980
, 120–
26.
"impact of these experiences": Siegel, "Cocaine
Smoking," 293.
California Conference on Cocaine: Details of the
Santa Monica conference in Nahas, 
Cocaine
, 128–37.

===== PDF PAGE 755 =====
2. "We were the first"
the world on a platter: Details of Danilo Blandón's life
in prerevolutionary Nicaragua came from his testimony
in 
U.S. v. James
, March 7, 1996. Additional details of
Blandón's family history as well as the family history of
his wife, Chepita Murillo, were gained from the author's
interviews of Blandón's cousin Flor Reyes, his attorney
Jose Macario Estrada, his supplier Norwin Meneses,
and his wife's uncle Orlando Murillo. More details were
gained from Georg Hodel's interviews of Moises
Hassan, Eden Pastora, Roger Mayorga, Orlando
Murillo, Blanca Margarita Meneses, and Norwin
Meneses.
Though Somoza's army had beaten them down: The
final days of the struggle with the Sandinistas are
described in Anthony Lake, 
Somoza Falling
 (New
York: Houghton Mifflin, 1989), 219; and Robert Kagan,
A Twilight Struggle
 (New York: Free Press, 1996), 84.
"I cannot think of a single thing": Exchange between
Ed Koch and Lucy Benson before the Subcommittee
on Foreign Operations and Appropropriations of the
House Appropriations Committee, March 24, 1977.
"Somoza is known to have instructed": Sally Shelton's
statements were made before the Subcommittee on
International Organizations of the House International
Relations Committee, February 16, 1978.
Gustavo "El Tigre" Medina: Details of Medina's
background and Sandinista views regarding him were
gained during author's interviews with Gustavo
Medina, Juan C. Wong, Leonardo Hernandez, and
Jose Macario Estrada; additional information in Oleg
Ignatiev and Genrykh Borovik, 
The Agony of a

===== PDF PAGE 756 =====
Dictatorship
 (Moscow: Progress Publishers, 1980),
80.
"allegations of cruel, inhuman and degrading
treatment": State Department report submitted to the
House Committee on International Relations and the
Senate Comittee on Foreign Relations, February 3,
1978.
Inter-American Commission on Human Rights. . .did
its own inspection: Organization of American States,
Report on the Situation of Human Rights in
Nicaragua
, findings of on-site observation in the
Republic of Nicaragua, October 3–12, 1978.
"Hundred of Nicaraguans struggle daily": Panamanian
radio report, in FBIS daily summary for Central
America, June 11, 1979, 11.
Blandón's job was to award grants: Danilo Blandón,
testimony in 
U.S. v. James
.
"I want the U.S. people to help me": Somoza's radio
address, in FBIS daily summary for Central America,
June 19, 1979, 16.
Blandón fell in with a Red Cross convoy: Blandón,
testimony in 
U.S. v. James
.
brothers named Torres: Ibid.
cousins of Pablo Escobar: The Torres's relationship
with Escobar was obtained from 1996 L.A. County
Sheriff's Office (LACSO) interviews of retired Bell
police detective Jerry Guzzetta, author's interviews
with Guzzetta, and Georg Hodel's interviews with
Norwin Meneses.
blossoming Miami cocaine market: Description of
early Miami cocaine market taken from Kerry Report,
27, and from Guy Gugliotta and Jeff Leen, 
Kings of
Cocaine
 (New York: Harper and Row, 1990): 14–15.

===== PDF PAGE 757 =====
"I was the first": Details of Blandón's early involvement
with the Contras in L.A. came from his testimony in
U.S. v. James
, and his interviews with the Central
Intelligence Agency Inspector General's Office,
January 1998, CIA-IG, 69–70.
"You Americans have no idea": Jose Macario Estrada,
interview by author.
Blandón applied for political asylum: Danilo Blandón,
INS Application for Permanent Residence
,
December 10, 1986.
one of the earliest founders of the FDN: Details of
Blandón's pro-Contra activities in L.A. obtained from
Georg Hodel's interviews with William Fonseca.
Luis Pallais Debayle. . .began making the rounds: Roy
Gutman, 
Banana Diplomacy
 (New York: Touchstone,
1988), 40–41.
"He fit the profile": Sam Dillon, 
Comandos
 (New York:
Henry Holt, 1991), 65. Details of Enrique Bermúdez's
background are on p. 62; see also Christopher
Dickey, 
With the Contras
 (New York: Simon and
Schuster, 1985), 62, 80.
Americans thought so highly of him: U.S.
recommendation of Bermúdez to Somoza reported in
Anastasio Somoza, 
Nicaragua Betrayed
 (Boston:
Western Islands Publishers, 1980), 383.
invited Bermúdez to the Pentagon: Bermúdez's
recruitment into CIA reported by Dillon, 
Comandos
,
62–63.
Legion of September 15th criminal history cited in
CIA-IG2, 62–7. 
One of the earliest written accounts. . .:
Latin American Regional Reports
, August 13, 1982.
telephone number of Colonel Ricardo Lau: Dickey,
With the Contras
, 88.

===== PDF PAGE 758 =====
"we had to provide some cars": Danilo Blandón,
testimony in 
U.S. v. James
.
3. "The brotherhood of military minds"
"He had to talk to me": Danilo Blandón's descriptions
of his early involvement with Norwin Meneses are
taken from his testimony in 
U.S. v. James
, his
testimony before the Grand Jury for the Northern
District of California, Grand Jury 93-5, Grand Jury
investigation 9301035, February 3, 1994, and his
statements in DOJ-IG, Ch.2, b. FBI report on Meneses
cited at DOJ-IG, Ch.3, c.
People who know Barrios describe him: Descriptions
of Donald Barrios from author's interviews with Jose
Macario Estrada and Ariel Solorzano Jr., and from
Georg Hodel's interview with Moises Hassan.
a partner of Violeta Chamorro: Norwin Meneses's
business partnership with Chamorro was discovered
by Georg Hodel in the corporate records of
Inversiones Financieras S.A.
"I was in the plane": Gustavo Medina, interview by
author.
a restaurant and an investment company: Barrios and
Medina were partners in Los Ranchos de Miami, Inc.,
and BMS Investments Inc.
a career criminal: Details of Norwin Meneses's early
career as a trafficker were taken from author's and
Georg Hodel's interviews with Roger Mayorga;
Mayorga's declarations to the Fifth District Criminal
Court, Managua, November 21, 1991; November 16,
1981, affidavit of DEA agent Sandra Smith in 
U.S. v.
60 Plymouth Circle, Daly City, California
, 1828-MW,

===== PDF PAGE 759 =====
Northern District of California; Eduardo Marenco,
"History of a Nicaraguan Godfather," 
El Semanario
,
August 15, 1996; Roberto Fonseca, "Meneses: King
of Drugs," 
Barricada
, November 16, 1991; and Eloisa
Ibarra, "Arce Refuses to Testify in Cocaine Case," 
La
Prensa
, November 22, 1991.
"one of the most totally corrupt military establishments
in the world": Richard Millett, 
Guardians of the
Dynasty
 (Maryknoll, N.Y.: Orbis Books, 1977), 251.
another brother, Brigadier General Fermin Meneses,
commanded the 
Guardia
 garrison: Organization of
American States, 
Report on the Situation of Human
Rights in Nicaragua
, findings of on-site observation in
the Republic of Nicaragua, October 3–12, 1978, 14;
FBIS daily summary for Central America, August 16,
1978, 4; and Juan C. Wong, interview by author.
"anti-Sandinista to the death": Marenco, "History of a
Nicaraguan Godfather."
"Nicaragua is one of the few countries": Sally Shelton,
statement before the Subcommittee on International
Organizations of the House International Relations
Committee, February 16, 1978.
"Gambling, alcoholism, drugs, prostitution": Pastoral
letter, in exhibits to hearing of House Committee on
International Relations, February 16, 1978, 108–10.
Edmundo Meneses's background was gathered from
testimony before House Committee on International
Relations, April 30, 1977, 231; and author's interviews
with Jose Macario Estrada, Juan C. Wong, Peter Dale
Scott, and Rafael Cornejo.
". . .used a Nicaraguan Air Force plane. . .": DOJ-IG,
Ch.4, 4a.
starting up an armed guerrilla group: Marenco, "History

===== PDF PAGE 760 =====
of a Nicaraguan Godfather."
Norwin appears to have literally gotten away with
murder: Ernesto Aburto, "An Old Crime in the History
of Norwin," 
Barricada
, November 26, 1991; "Arrest
Order for Norwin Meneses," 
La Prensa
, June 10,
1977; "Threats to Norwin's family?" 
La Prensa
, June
17, 1977; and Rafael Cornejo, interview by author.
Jairo Meneses debriefing, DOJ-IG, Ch.3, e; FBI
Mexico City request, DOJ-IG, Ch.3, c.
Ambassador Meneses was machine-gunned: FBIS
daily summary for Central America, September 18,
1978, September 19, 1978, and October 2, 1978; and
Oleg Ignatiev and Genrykh Borovik, 
The Agony of a
Dictatorship
 (Moscow: Progress Publishers, 1980),
68.
"guerillas of Pancasan": Marenco, "History of a
Nicaraguan Godfather."
Norwin. . .left Nicaragua in early June 1979: Norwin
Meneses, interview by author and Georg Hodel.
Meneses played a key role. . .: DEA informant quoted
in DOJ-IG, Ch.4, pt.2.
posed as a successful businessman: Information
about Norwin's businesses in San Francisco from
author's interviews of Meneses; Seth Rosenfeld,
"Nicaraguan Exile's Cocaine-Contra Connection," 
San
Francisco Examiner
, June 23, 1986; and Guillermo
Fernandez, "Nica Resident Here Is Supposed Head of
Ring," 
La Nacion
, December 1, 1986. Records of
Norwin's property purchases were found by author in
San Mateo County Clerk's Office.
Court records show: Special Agent Ronald J. Kimball,
Costa Rican DEA report, DEA file GFR3–76–4001,
December 29, 1976.

===== PDF PAGE 761 =====
One of the men. . .: CIA-IG2, 62-4.
"an interesting combination": Sandra Smith, interview
by author.
arrested for cocaine sales: Details of Roger
Meneses's and Omar Meneses's arrests contained in
Smith affidavit, 
U.S. v. 60 Plymouth Circle
.
Smith got a break: Information about Baldwin Park
investigation, Julio Bermúdez's arrest, and Jairo
Meneses search was contained in Smith affidavit, 
U.S.
v. 60 Plymouth Circle
.
Blandón accepted Meneses's pitch: Blandón,
testimony in 
U.S. v. James
. The visit by Bermúdez
was contained in his CIA-IG interview.
on an FDN fund-raising committee: Meneses
explained his role with the Contras in interviews with
the author and Georg Hodel. Blandón's description of
Meneses's role was contained in Blandón's CIA-IG
interview. Additional details in Douglas Farah,
"Nicaraguan is Reputed Link between Contras and
Cocaine Sales in California," 
Washington Post
,
October 4, 1996; Tim Golden, "Pivotal Figures of
Newspaper Series May Be Only Bit Players," 
New
York Times
, October 20, 1996; Ricardo Gutierrez,
"Show de defensores de narcos," 
El Nuevo Diario
,
August 15, 1992.
Adolfo Calero. . .denied: Farah, "Nicaraguan is
Reputed Link."
"brotherhood of military minds": Edgar Chamorro,
interview by author.
"the ends justify the means": Details of Blandón's
meeting with Bermúdez came from Blandón's
testimony in 
U.S. v. James
, and his CIA-IG interviews.
"illicit or dirty business": Senate Intelligence

===== PDF PAGE 762 =====
Committee, November 1996.
Langley was informed by cable: CIA-IG2, 66–7.
"escorted to Tegucigalpa airport": CIA-IG, 71.
"Mr. Meneses explained to me": Blandón's training
sessions as a cocaine dealer were detailed in both his
testimony in 
U.S. v. James
 and Blandón GJ.
"Blandón was introduced": Torres brothers' statements
reported by Agents Bruce A. Burroughs and Don A.
Allen, FBI-302 report, case file 245B-SF-96287, May
5, 1992.
denies traveling with Blandón: Frank Vigil, interview by
author and Georg Hodel.
"Chepita called me": Orlando Murillo, interview by
author and Georg Hodel.
"Blandón fled Nicaragua": Chuck Jones's affidavit,
filed in 
In the Matter of the Search of Premises
Commonly Known as Storage Unit L-7, Security First
Self Storage, 3089 Main St. Chula Vista, California
,
92–2083-M, Southern District of California, May 18,
1992.
4. "I never sent cash"
Details of the formation of UDN-FARN in Miami are
contained in Shirley Christian, 
Nicaragua: Revolution
in the Family
 (New York: Random House, 1985), 228–
29; and Glenn Garvin, 
Everybody Had His Own
Gringo
 (McLean, Va.: Brassey's, 1992), 25–26. The
weapons shipments are detailed in Martha Honey,
Hostile Acts
 (Gainesville: University of Florida Press,
1994), 224.
The generals there had a deal for them: Roy Gutman,
Banana Diplomacy
 (New York: Touchstone, 1988),

===== PDF PAGE 763 =====
52–54. The assault on the radio station is described
by Christopher Dickey, 
With the Contras
 (New York:
Simon and Schuster, 1985), 90–92; and Garvin, 
His
Own Gringo
, 33–34.
Reagan. . .authorized the CIA: Dickey, 
With the
Contras
, 104.
"We were practically official guests": A transcript of
William Baltodano Herrera's tape-recorded interview
was contained in Dieter Eich and Carlos Rincon, 
The
Contras: Interviews with Anti-Sandinistas
 (San
Francisco: Synthesis Publications, 1984), 17–29.
"It was in Buenos Aires": Pedro Javier Nunez
Cabezas, cited in Eich and Rincon, 
The Contras
, 45–
55.
Jairo confessed to federal prosecutors: DOJ-IG, Ch.3,
pt.l, e.
indications that Bermúdez was personally corrupt:
Anne Manuel, "Nicaragua: New U.S. Aid Won't End
Contra Investigation," Inter Press Service, July 1,
1986.
"agree to join efforts": Details of the creation of FDN
taken from Peter Kornbluh, 
Nicaragua: The Price of
Intervention
 (Washington, D.C.: Institute for Policy
Studies, 1987), 26; Garvin, 
His Own Gringo
, 38; and
Gutman, 
Banana Diplomacy
, 56.
"single most detested group of Nicaraguans": Stephen
Kinzer, 
Blood of Brothers
 (New York: Doubleday,
1991).
partners in a Miami restaurant: Enrique Sanchez was
a partner in Los Ranchos De Miami, Inc.
"Calero's hatchet man": Oliver North, notebook entry
for January 28, 1986.
"Sanchez became one of the Contras' top. .

===== PDF PAGE 764 =====
.strategists": Aminda Marques Gonzalez, "Aristides
Sanchez Dies," 
Miami Herald
, September 8, 1993.
"$29 million isn't going to buy you much": Bobby
Inman, quoted in Bob Woodward, 
Veil
 (New York:
Simon and Schuster, 1987), 192.
"role of American mercenary": Alfonso Chardy, "CIA-
backed Fighters No Longer Boast of Toppling
Sandinistas, Agency Says," 
Miami Herald
, May 23,
1983.
"deny having met with any U.S. government officials":
Edgar Chamorro, 
Packaging the Contras
 (New York:
Institute for Media Analysis, 1987).
"just for sitting around at a desk": Hector Frances's
statements were published as an appendix to
Chamorro, 
Packaging the Contras
.
"Torres stated": FBI report, 1992.
5. "God, Fatherland and Freedom"
Details of Carlos Cabezas's background and
employment history came from interviews with
Cabezas by the author and/or Georg Hodel; his
testimony of November 28, 1984, in 
U.S. v. Julio
Zavala et al
, 83 CR 0154, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California; and Leo McCarthy, U.S.
Department of Probation and Parole, to U.S.
Magistrate Owen E. Woodruff, letter, February 18,
1983.
Details of Julio Zavala's background came from
interviews with Carlos Cabezas, his testimony in 
U.S.
v. Zavala
, and McCarthy to Woodruff, letter.
FBI had joined the chase: Most of the details of the
FBI's investigation of Cabezas and Zavala were

===== PDF PAGE 765 =====
contained in the Master Affidavit of FBI agent David E.
Alba, filed in support of an application for electronic
surveillance. Alba's August 1982 affidavit is part of the
case file in 
U.S. v. Zavala
.
recently declassified CIA Inspector General's report:
The CIA's early interest in Zavala was disclosed in
CIA-IG, 84.
Sanchez said he flew for the CIA: Troilo Sanchez,
interview by author, Georg Hodel, and Nicaraguan
reporter Roberto Orosco, who was later fired by 
La
Prensa
 for investigating the Blandón-Meneses money-
laundering operations in Managua.
"We are like family": Meneses, interview by Guillermo
Fernandez R., 
La Nacion
 (Costa Rica), December 1,
1986. Fernandez was forced to flee Costa Rica
because of death threats after publishing his extensive
1986 series in Contra-related drug trafficking.
FBI teletype shows that by November 1982: Reprinted
in Kerry Report, 400–409.
"Troilo sold 200 pounds": "Contra Accuses Other
Rebels of Corruption, Drug Trafficking," UPI, April 26,
1986. The story was datelined Tegucigalpa, Honduras.
interview with a British television crew: Dewey
Clarridge's comments about Ivan Gómez were made
to a film crew from ITV, London, 
The Big Story
, which
aired in December 1996.
The CIA report confirms: CIA-IG2, 207–229. During
the CIA polygraph tests, Gómez changed his story
about the money laundering several times. The
polygraphers concluded Gómez had been involved in
illegal drug deals, drug money laundering, and may
have been conducting these activities after joining the
CIA. They also believed he was not telling them the

===== PDF PAGE 766 =====
whole story about the crimes to which he'd confessed.
"well known to 'The Company'": Agent Sandalio
Gonzalez, DEA-6, 
File Opening Report—Debriefing
of STF-78–0006 (CI)
, February 6, 1984, file GFTF-
84–4004.
Pereira was arrested in Miami: Details of Pereira's
arrest are contained in a January 10, 1983, application
for an extension of a wiretap by FBI special agent
David Alba.
FBI started taking the operation apart: Details of the
surveillance and arrests at Pier 96 are contained in an
application for a search warrant dated February 14,
1983, by FBI special agent David Alba, filed as part of
the pleadings in 
U.S. v. Zavala
. Other details came
from a story by Maitland Zane, "Cocaine Seized from
Frogmen at S.F. Pier," 
San Francisco Chronicle
,
January 18, 1983.
The very same ship. . .was found in Houston: The
Houston raid on the 
Cuidad de Cucuta
 was reported
by UPI on May 17, 1984. UPI reported three other
Gran Colombiana line drug seizures in Los Angeles on
May 14, 1986; January 18, 1984; and January 30,
1983; and reported on the Frogman case seizure on
January 17, 1983.
At 7 a.m. on February 15: Search warrant return was
found in case file of 
U.S. v. Zavala
, currently on file at
the National Archives, San Bruno, Calif.
Iverson handed Peckham two letters: Details of
Iverson's meetings with Peckham and the court
squabble over the depositions were filed in numerous
documents, 
U.S. v. Zavala
. The conversations
between Iverson, Peckham, and Mark Zanides were
taken from the trial transcripts in 
U.S. v. Zavala
.

===== PDF PAGE 767 =====
Costa Rican CIA station fired off a cable: A summary
of the CIA cables was contained in CIA-IG.
The Justice Department Inspector General's
conclusions are contained in DOJ-IG, Ch.8, pt.2, e.
6. "They were doing their patriotic duty"
All of the quotes from Blandón came from either his
testimony in 
U.S. v. James
 or Blandón GJ.
"I keeping the books from L.A.": The Q&A was from an
exchange between Ricky Ross's defense attorney
Alan Fenster and Blandón during 
U.S. v. James
.
"I went one time": John Lacome, interview by author.
nephews all drove flashy new cars: Gloria Lopez,
interview by author.
"Jaime Sr., I respected him": Rafael Cornejo, interview
by author.
murdered in 1990: Jaime Meneses's murder was
reported by Rodrigo Peralta, "Crimen en asalto a
financiera," 
La Nacion
, June 27, 1990; and Tomas
Zamora, "Aclaran crimen de empresario," 
La Nacion
,
August 31, 1990.
JDM Artwork: Records on file at the Division of
Corporations of the California Secretary of State.
Eden Pastora said he visited the firm: Eden Pastora,
interview by Georg Hodel.
Pastora aide Carol Prado claimed: Carol Prado,
interview by author and Georg Hodel.
former associate of Blandón: Puerto Rican associate,
interview by author. He declined to be named
because, he says, he was frightened of Blandón. He
provided the author with a copy of the photograph of
Blandón in the FDN office in L.A.

===== PDF PAGE 768 =====
CIA cables filed in federal court: The 1984 CIA cable
was filed as an exhibit in 
U.S. v. James
 and later
summarized more thoroughly in CIA-IG.
1986 interview: The interview with Meneses was
conducted by Seth Rosenfeld of the 
San Francisco
Examiner
.
"appeared like a fund-raiser": Edgar Chamorro,
quoted in Seth Rosenfeld, "Nicaraguan Exile's
Cocaine-Contra Connection," 
San Francisco
Examiner
, June 23, 1986.
Renato Pena interview, DOJ-IG, Ch.4, pt.2, 5b.
Meneses interview with CIA, CIA-IG, 76.
"It's true, it was widely spread around": Juan C. Wong,
interview by author.
"People were being arrested": Bradley Brunon,
interview by author.
Ronald Jay Lister: Lister's military service records
were exhibits to LACSO report, November 1996.
"always very successful": Lt. Danielle Adams, interview
by author.
"You hear lots of things about Ron Lister": Chief Neil
Purcell, interview by author.
Pyramid International's corporate records are on file at
the Division of Corporations, California Secretary of
State.
"through a Beverly Hills business connection": Ronald
Lister was interviewed four separate times by LACSO
investigators: November 6, 1996, by Lt. Michael
Bornman and Sgt. Axel Anderson; again on November
6, by Bornman; on November 7, 1996, by Bornman;
and on November 23, 1996, by Bornman and
Anderson. He was also interviewed in CIA-IG, 55–59.
He refused two written interview requests by author.

===== PDF PAGE 769 =====
Blandón described his partnership with Lister in DOJ-
IG, Ch.5, pt.lb.
"I think I was actually an officer": Christopher Moore,
interview by author.
"the 'Reagan Doctrine' may have been born in El
Salvador": Robert Kagan, 
A Twilight Struggle
 (New
York: Free Press, 1996), 209.
reason. . .William Casey gave to Congress: Casey's
briefing described by Roy Gutman, 
Banana
Diplomacy
 (New York: Touchstone, 1988), p. 85
"Under the guise of anti-Communism": Oliver L. North,
Under Fire
 (New York: HarperCollins, 1991), 224.
Colonel Nicholas Carranza: Carranza's role with the
death squads and the CIA was reported by Bob
Woodward, 
Veil
 (New York: Simon and Schuster,
1987), 262.
The interviews with Lister and the FBI informant are
summarized in DOJ-IG, Ch. 5, pt. 1B.
Lister's company. . .made a security proposal: A copy
of the Pyramid proposal was provided to the author by
a member of the raid team, Robert Juarez.
"We need the know-how": The Cabazon letters to Tim
LaFrance were published by John Connoly, 
Spy
magazine, April 1992, as was the quote from the
Wackenhut employee. The Cabazon projects were
reported by Jonathan Littman in a series in the 
San
Francisco Chronicle
, September 4, September 6, and
September 13, 1991.
"spies, arms merchants and others": Casolaro's
involvement with the Cabazon investigation is detailed
in Michael Taylor and Jonathan Littman, "Death of
Conspiracy Investigator Probed," 
San Francisco
Chronicle
, February 11, 1994.

===== PDF PAGE 770 =====
his memoirs, 
Compromised:
 Terry Reed and John
Cummings, 
Compromised
 (Kew Gardens, N.Y.:
Clandestine Publishing, 1995).
attempt to portray Reed as a crackpot conspiracy
theorist: Howard Schneider, "Clandestination
Arkansas," 
Washington Post
, July 21, 1994. For a
considerably more intelligent look at the goings-on at
Mena, see Alexander Cockburn's columns from the
Nation
, March 12, 1992, and March 28, 1992,
reprinted in Cockburn, 
The Golden Age Is in Us
 (New
York: Verso, 1995), 264–68.
Reed's book contains transcripts of interviews 
Time
magazine reporter Richard Behar did while putting
together his appalling hatchet job on Reed. The story,
which appeared in 
Time
, April 20, 1992, resulted in a
libel suit against Behar, during which his interview
tapes were produced. To get a flavor of how diligently
and open-mindedly the national news media has
checked out allegations of government complicity in
narcotics trafficking, Behar's obsequious interview with
Oliver North (642–44), a pardoned criminal, is
illuminating.
The only national media outlets to take Mena seriously
have been 
Penthouse
 and the 
Wall Street Journal.
Penthouse
, in July 1995, published Sally Denton and
Roger Morris's heavily documented story, "The Crimes
of Mena," after the 
Washington Post
 once again lost
its nerve and sat on it. (For a mealy-mouthed and self-
serving explanation of that act of courage, see "Put on
Hold," 
Washington Post
, February 12, 1995.) The
WSJ
 has printed Micah Morrison's reporting on its
much-maligned editorial page. See, for example,
"Mysterious Mena: CIA Discloses, Leach Disposes,"

===== PDF PAGE 771 =====
January 29, 1997.
"Seal detailed his cocaine-smuggling activities": "IRS
Says Smuggler Owes $29 Million, Seizes His
Property," 
Baton Rouge State Times
, February 5,
1986. The letter to Meese was reported by Denton and
Morris, "Crimes of Mena," 60.
Hondu Carib Cargo Inc.: Details of Hondu Carib's
involvement with Barry Seal and the Contras were in
the Kerry Report, 44–45 and 278–97.
One DC-4 Moss used: The April 28, 1987 cable
reporting discovery of CIA phone numbers in a
suspected drug plane is summarized in CIA-IG2, 283.
North's notebook entry for August 9, 1985, shows
Owen's warning about the New Orleans–based DC-6.
North was being regularly briefed: North's notebooks,
entries for June and July 1984. Copies are on file at
the National Security Archive at George Washington
University, Washington. North was briefed by CIA
official Duane "Dewey" Clarridge, another Iran-Contra
indictee, who was then in charge of the Contra project.
Much of the information about North's involvement with
the Seal DEA/CIA sting can be found in 
Enforcement
of Narcotics, Firearms and Money Laundering Laws
,
a record of the oversight hearings of the
Subcommittee on Crime of the House Judiciary
Committee, July 28, September 23, 29 and October 5,
1988 (Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office,
1989).
"the murder. . .of a DEA agent": FBI report from the
special agent in charge of the Washington FBI field
office to the director of the FBI, 
Nicaraguan Active
Measures Program Directed against Lt. Col. Oliver
North
, June 11, 1986. The report was found in the

===== PDF PAGE 772 =====
microfiche of the National Security Archive's Iran-
Contra compendium, 
Making of a Scandal
.
"a contract CIA operative": Roger Morris, 
Partners in
Power
 (New York: Henry Holt, 1996), 389–427.
"associates of Seal": Kerry Report, 121.
"it was a CIA operation": Larry Patterson, cited in
Morris, 
Partners in Power
, 426.
John Bender. . .swore in a deposition: R. Emmett
Tyrell Jr., "The Arkansas Drug Shuttle," 
American
Spectator
, August 1995; this article also contains
Brown's statements about Clinton's knowledge.
FBI's description of its investigation: FBI, 
National
Narcotics Report for 1988
, 254. It is an exhibit to the
official report of the June 6 and August 8, 1988,
hearings of the Subcommittee on Criminal Justice of
the House Committee on the Judiciary.
"Whatever the limits": Morris, 
Partners in Power
, 425.
"darkest backwater": Susan Schmidt, "CIA Probed in
Alleged Arms Shipments," 
Washington Post
, August
7, 1996.
"joint training operation": Kathy Kiely, "CIA Admits 2-
Week Training 'Exercise' at Mena," 
Arkansas
Democrat Gazette
, August 9, 1996.
"coded records": Morris, 
Partners in Power
, 392.
"DIA wanted them to happen": Tim LaFrance,
interview by L.A. journalist Nick Schou.
"It was kind of touchy": John Vandewerker, interview by
Nick Schou.
"FDN couldn't collect sufficient funds": Norwin
Meneses, interview by Georg Hodel and the author.
"contacts with the Contras": Tim Golden, "Pivotal
Figures of Newspaper Series May Be Only Bit
Players," 
New York Times
, October 20, 1996.

===== PDF PAGE 773 =====
"led a sales team": Victor Merina and William Rempel,
"Ex-Associates Doubt Onetime Drug Trafficker's
Claim of CIA Ties," 
Los Angeles Times
, October 21,
1996. (In 1990 Merina was given a copy of some of
the evidence seized from Lister's house during a 1986
drug raid and either threw it away, lost it, or gave it to
another reporter who lost it. Reporter Jim Newton told
the LA County Sheriff's Office in 1996 that the 
Times
was "administratively embarassed" that the
documents given to Merina for safekeeping could no
longer be found.)
a federal prosecutor immediately objected: This was
Asst. U.S. Attorney L. J. O'Neale, during 
U.S. v.
James
.
7. "Something happened to Ivan"
Many of the quotes from Ross in this chapter come
from his sworn testimony in 
U.S. v. James
. The author
also interviewed Ross extensively, but whenever
possible his court testimony was used in the text.
Information from the interviews was used if his
testimony did not address a particular issue, if it
expanded upon a point made during the testimony, or
was more understandable.
'onto something new': Jesse Katz, "Deposed King of
Crack," 
L.A. Times
, December 20, 1994, A20.
"his polyester shirt had melted": 
Time
, June 23, 1980,
10. Pryor's explanations for the accident were made to
People Weekly
, June 29, 1981, 74–78; and 
Ebony
,
October 1980, 42.
"When Cocaine Can Kill," 
Newsweek
, June 23, 1980,
30.

===== PDF PAGE 774 =====
NBA freebase use: "NBA and Cocaine: Nothing to
Snort At," 
L.A. Times
, August 19, 1980.
"pre–Harrison Act yellow journalism": Ronald Siegel,
"Cocaine Smoking," 
Journal of Psychoactive Drugs
,
October–December 1982, 296.
"relatively high cost and difficulty": Steven R. Belenko,
Crack and Evolution of Anti-Drug Policy
 (Westport,
Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1993), 4.
Rand Institute study: Jonathan P. Caulkins,
Developing Price Series for Cocaine
, Drug Policy
Research Series (Santa Monica, Calif.: Rand Institute,
1994).
"You heard Tootie's name": Steven Polak, interview by
author.
"ain't never been big": Ronald L. Soble, "Drug Dealer
Admits: 'I Sold Them,'" 
L.A. Times
, June 11, 1984.
"amounts of cocaine he allegedly dealt": William
Overend, "Adventures in the Drug Trade," 
L.A. Times
Magazine
, May 7, 1989.
sometime thief, sometime student: Details of Ross's
background and childhood came from interviews with
Ross, his mother, Annie Ross, and his brother, David
Ross, which were conducted by the author.
"There exists no information to substantiate your
membership": Ross's lack of gang affiliation was
reported in a memo from B. Davis, Pima Unit
Manager, FCI, Phoenix to Ricky Ross, May 24, 1993,
Subject: Inmate request of staff member
.
"culture of a gang member": Jesse Katz, interview by
author.
"He was a very good player": Pete Brown, interview by
author.
"There was no evidence": Alan Fenster, interview by

===== PDF PAGE 775 =====
author.
8. "A million hits is not enough"
"one or two keys": All quotes from Blandón in this
chapter are taken from his testimony in 
U.S. v. James
or Blandón GJ.
"Henry was kind of a knucklehead": Ross's quotes in
this chapter come either from his interviews with the
author, his testimony in 
U.S. v. James
, or his 1996
LACSO interview.
"a saucer, a glass, a paper towel": Dr. Franklin Sher,
testimony from House Select Committee on Narcotics
Abuse and Control, 
Cocaine, a Major Drug Issue of
the Seventies: Hearings before the House of
Representatives
, 96th Cong., 1st sess.
The Natural Process:
 The information about the 1981
crack pamphlet was contained in Ronald Siegel,
"Cocaine Smoking," 
Journal of Psychoactive Drugs
,
October–December 1982, 309.
"what made us start smoking": The interview with Big
Shiphead was contained in Yusuf Jah and Sister
Shah'Keyah, 
Uprising
 (New York: Scribner, 1995),
241.
1985 study: Malcolm Klein and Cheryl Maxson, "Rock
Sales in South Los Angeles," 
Sociology and Social
Research
 69, no. 4 (July 1985): 561. Their final report
was published as National Institute of Justice, 
Gang
Involvement in Cocaine "Rock" Trafficking
, NIJ #85-
IJ-LX-0057, April 1988.
"We didn't know what it was": Steve Polak, interview
by author.
"limited to the Carribean and Haitian communities":

===== PDF PAGE 776 =====
James Inciardi, "Beyond Cocaine: Basuco, Crack and
Other Coca Products," 
Contemporary Drug
Problems
, fall 1987, 475–77.
"most effective trafficking groups": The information
regarding the political roots of the Jamaican crack
gangs appeared as U.S. Department of Justice, Drug
Enforcement Administration, Intelligence Division,
Crack Cocaine, Drug Intelligence Report
, DEA-
94016, 1994, 8.
The Jamaican CIA destabilization program was
exposed by Ernest Volkman and John Cummings in
"Murder As Usual," 
Penthouse
, December 1977. This
program was summarized in William Blum, 
Killing
Hope
 (Monroe, Maine: Common Courage Press,
1995), 263–67.
"more-or-less standard sizes": David Allen and James
Jekel, 
Crack: The Broken Promise
 (London:
MacMillan Press, 1991), 17.
"not just a matter of smoking freebase": Byck,
interview by author.
"first crack millionaire": Jesse Katz, interview; Katz,
"Deposed King of Crack," 
L.A. Times
, December 20,
1994.
"The thing about Rick": James Galipeau, interview by
author.
visiting one of Ross's "cookhouses": Chico Brown,
interview by author.
"Wal-Mart of cocaine": 
L.A. Times
, December 20,
1994.
"rocks hit the streets hard": Leibo, quoted in Jah and
Shah'Keyah, 
Uprising
, 183.
9. "He would have had me by the tail"

===== PDF PAGE 777 =====
none other than CIA director William Casey: Casey's
leaks to 
Newsweek
 were reported by Roy Gutman,
Banana Diplomacy
 (New York: Touchstone, 1988),
116.
"perhaps the most hated group of Nicaraguans": Tom
Harkin, cited in Robert Kagan, 
A Twilight Struggle
(New York: Free Press, 1996), 242.
"hit the roof": Oliver L. North, 
Under Fire
 (New York:
HarperCollins,1991), 237.
"to keep the nation's secrets": Edward P. Boland,
cited in Kagan, 
Twilight Struggle
, 243.
"an elegant two-story place": Sam Dillon, 
Comandos
(New York: Henry Holt, 1991), 127.
"The FDN needed people": Blandón, cited in CIA-IG,
72.
"principal group is controlled by Blandón": DEA report,
Debriefing of SRP-86-0018, August 25–27, 1986
, by
agent Thomas A. Schrettner of the Riverside, Calif.,
office. The report is from DEA file #GFRP-86–4020,
titled, 
Blandón, Danilo
. The file has never been
released to the public. The single report was released
as an exhibit to the LACSO report.
"As of approximately 1984": The Torres brothers'
statements about Blandón and Meneses are
contained in an FBI-302 report by Agents Bruce A.
Burroughs and Don A. Allen, May 5, 1992, file 245B-
SF-96287. 1990 DEA report cited in DOJ-IG, ch.2,
pt.6 Kl.
"It was going to be a big party": "Examining Charges
of CIA Role in Crack Sales," 
L.A. Times
, October 21,
1996.
"he was with Norwin in '84": Rafael Cornejo, interview

===== PDF PAGE 778 =====
by author.
"arresting officers also found a small vial": Andy Furillo,
L.A. Herald-Examiner
, "Maury Wills Caught Driving
Stolen Car," December 27, 1983.
"Norwin was a target": Jerry Smith, interview by author.
"the target of unsuccessful investigative attempts": The
federal prosecutor was Asst. U.S. Attorney L. J.
O'Neale, of San Diego, in a motion for downward
reduction of Blandón's sentence, 1993.
"totally protected by the U.S. government": Dennis
Ainsworth, interview by author.
"I got a reputation": Don Sinicco, who died in 1996,
was interviewed by the author at his home in Fairfield,
Calif., in November 1995. He provided author with
numerous documents and photographs.
Calero "had been working for the CIA in Nicaragua":
Edgar Chamorro, 
Packaging the Contras
 (New York:
Institute for Media Analysis, 1987).
"The cocktail party went very smoothly": FBI 302,
Record of Interview with Dennis Ainsworth
, San
Francisco, January 22, 1987, file IC 600–1, sub. F-9,
released by the National Archives under the Freedom
of Information Act.
"He assisted the Cuban Legion": Jack Terrell,
interview by author.
showed the author attendance records: Among other
attendees at USACA meetings was Sacramento TV
news anchorman Stan Atkinson. Sinicco said Atkinson
attended not as a journalist but as a Contra supporter,
"but you couldn't tell he was for the Contras from his
news reports."
"run through an obscure bureau in the Department of
State": The House staff report, which is chilling

===== PDF PAGE 779 =====
reading, is entitled 
State Department and Intelligence
Community Involvement in Domestic Activities
Related to the Iran-Contra Affair
. It was written by
Spencer Oliver, Bert Hammond, and Vic Zangla of the
Committee of Foreign Affairs staff in October 20,
1992. It documents how the CIA and Oliver North ran
"highly questionable, improper and illegal" covert
propaganda operations against the American public.
Naturally, it was ignored by the national media, who
were the dupes of this operation.
"to affect public opinion favorably": Thomas Dowling's
statements were made during the congressional Iran-
Contra committees in the once top-secret 
Deposition
of Father Thomas Dowling
, August 4, 1987. Though
ostensibly declassified, huge chunks of Dowling's
deposition are still secret. For an excellent article on
the bizarre Father Dowling, see Dan Noyes and Ellen
Morris, "The Trouble with Father Tom: The Strange
Tale of San Francisco's Contra Priest," 
San Francisco
Examiner "Image" Magazine
, November 8, 1987.
"I really did retire": G. James Quesada, interview by
author.
"there are indications of links": The cables can be
found in CIA-IG, 79.
Pena was dating Blandón's sister, Leysla: Leysla
Balladares, interview by author.
"made from six to eight trips": CIA-IG, 78.
Pena was extensively debriefed: Summaries of his
debriefings and interviews are contained in DOJ-IG,
Ch. 4, pt.2, 5b. Jairo Meneses' debriefings are in
DOJ-IG, Ch.4, pt.2, 5c.
"I don't know anything": Calero cited in Guillermo
Fernandez, "Nica Resident Here Is Supposed Head of

===== PDF PAGE 780 =====
Ring," 
La Nacion
, December 1, 1986.
"If Jairo supposedly was my accountant": 
La Nacion
,
December 1, 1986.
10. "Teach a man a craft and he's liable
to practice it"
Contra forces were at their lowest ebb: Robert Kagan,
A Twilight Struggle
 (New York: Free Press, 1996),
356–57; Glenn Garvin, 
Everybody Had His Own
Gringo
 (McLean, Va.: Brassey's, 1992), 163; Sam
Dillon, 
Comandos
 (New York: Henry Holt, 1991), 140–
45; Oliver L. North, 
Under Fire
 (New York:
HarperCollins, 1991), 249–50.
"cutting both our losses and theirs": Robert McFarlane,
cited in Kagan, 
Twilight Struggle
, 347.
"The CIA knows about this guy": Eric Swenson,
interview by author.
the agency had information tying Meneses: 1984 CIA
cable, CIA-IG, 48.
1984 had been a terrific year: In 
U.S. v. James
,
Blandón testified that 1984–85 was when his dealings
with Ricky Ross were at their height, a time frame
Ross also confirmed.
decided to approve his application for political asylum:
Blandón testified to his immigration status in 
U.S. v.
James
, and it was confirmed by author's interview with
Jose Macario Estrada, who represented Blandón
before the INS in Miami.
opened a NADDIS file on Blandón: Danilo's and
Chepita's NADDIS reports circa August 1986 were
released as exhibits to the LACSO report.
"I have some 300 DEA-6 reports": Brunon's comments

===== PDF PAGE 781 =====
came during Blandón's detention hearing in 
U.S. v.
Blandón
, May 30, 1992.
"I've had clients deported": The immigration lawyer
requested his name not be used because he was
revealing information gained as a result of an attorney-
client relationship.
blanket zero-tolerance policy: The State Department
official, Tom Casey, was interviewed by the author.
Condition of Blandón's immigration files cited in DOJ-
IG, Ch.2, pt.7, L2. DEA's failure to investigate Blandón
cited in DOJ-IG, Ch. 2, pt.1B.
bought the house under his name: Blandón described
the purchase of the home during his testimony in 
U.S.
v. James
, and it was confirmed by Orlando Murillo
during an interview with the author.
valued its worth at around $29 million: The DEA had
an appraisal done on Guerra's parking lot in 1992—
presumably for forfeiture purposes—while he was
under investigation for money laundering.
$2,000 in drug profits had a legitimate pedigree: The
example of money laundering through used car lots
was taken from the notes of LACSO Sgt. Ed Huffman,
made during a January 1987 meeting with the FBI and
DEA regarding Blandón's drug ring. The notes were
released as exhibits to the LACSO report.
"Blandón became very close to Ricky Ross": The
Torres brothers' police interview was conducted by
LACSO Sgts. Daniel Cruz and Joseph Hartshorne,
November 14, 1996.
"the black people": A conversation secretly taped by
DEA informant John P. Arman on July 21, 1990. The
tapes were released during discovery in 
U.S. v.
Blandón
.

===== PDF PAGE 782 =====
Jacinto Torres quickly got into trouble: Details of
Jacinto Torres's arrest are contained in 
People v.
Robert Joseph Andreas and Jacinto Jose Torres
,
case A590516, Municipal Court of Burbank.
"You know your client's guilty": The probation officer's
complaints were contained in 
Declaration of Alan R.
Freedman
, August 6, 1986, part of the case file in
People v. Andreas
.
"Police say hundreds": Andy Furillo, "South Central
Cocaine Sales Explode into $25 Rocks," 
L.A. Times
,
November 25, 1984. Furillo was interviewed by the
author.
"marketing breakthrough": Jay Matthews, "Drug Abuse
Takes New Form; Rock Cocaine is Peddled to Poor in
Los Angeles," 
Washington Post
, December 23, 1984,
A15.
"Crack first came to the attention": Statement of
Robert M. Stutman before the Select Committee on
Narcotics Abuse and Control, U.S. House of
Representatives, 
Crack Situation in New York City
,
July 18, 1986.
"fewer than fifteen arrests for crack": Ward, testimony
before the House Select Committee on Narcotics
Abuse and Control.
"throughout the Black residential areas": Malcolm
Klein and Cheryl Maxson, "Rock Sales in South Los
Angeles," 
Sociology and Social Research
 69, no. 4
(July 1985): 561.
That South Central L.A. was the nation's first major
crack market is fairly well established. Only after I
reported in 1996 that much of the cocaine fueling the
crack market there came by way of the Contras did the
historical record, which had gone unchallenged for

===== PDF PAGE 783 =====
years, suddenly become suspect. For the edification of
the reader, I am including here some of the many
historical references to crack's L.A. roots:
"Sometime during the 1980s rock cocaine was
formulated for the first time in South Central Los
Angeles. Two or three years passed before it
appeared under a different name, crack, on the East
Coast" (Robert Conot, "L.A. Gangs: Between a Rock
and a Hard Place," 
Los Angeles Times
, April 12,
1987).
"L.A. may be the model for other cities around the
country: rock cocaine first appeared there nearly three
years ago. Houston has been flooded with it for the
past two years; Detroit about 18 months; New York
police have discovered the crack crisis within the past
six months" (
Newsweek
, June 16, 1986).
"In Los Angeles, where the drug was introduced
around 1981, more than two-thirds of the 2,500 coke
arrests made this year have involved crack" (
Time
,
June 2, 1986).
"Rock made its L.A. debut around 1980. . .. By 1982,
Los Angeles hospital emergency rooms reported the
nation's greatest increases in cocaine overdoses, a
90 percent rise over the previous year" (
U.S. News
and World Report
, August 19, 1991).
"We find that crack came to New York City from Los
Angeles, where it made its first appearance in 1981"
(Wilhemina E. Holliday, deputy commissioner, New
York Police Department, testimony before House
Select Committee on Narcotics Abuse and Control,
July 15, 1986).
"Rock cocaine, or crack as it is termed on the east
coast, was first encountered in the Los Angeles area

===== PDF PAGE 784 =====
in 1981" (Ted Hunter, special agent in charge of the
Los Angeles DEA office, testimony before House
Select Committee on Narcotics Abuse and Control,
October 31, 1986).
"It perhaps started here" (L.A. County sheriff Sherman
Block, testimony before House Select Committee on
Narcotics Abuse, October 31, 1986).
"Crack is thought to have first appeared in the early
1980s on the West Coast" (Rick Hampton, "Crack:
Spreading across America," AP, May 25, 1986).
"Crack has been available in southern California now
for about five years" (Rep. Mel Levine, California, July
15, 1986, House Select Committee on Narcotics
Abuse and Control).
"After crack first became available in Los Angeles in
1981, the lure of huge profits from crack sales
attracted local African-American street gangs into the
crack trade" (DEA, 
Crack Cocaine Drug Intelligence
Report
, April 1994).
A handful of researchers, James Inciardi for example,
maintain that the crack market in Miami developed
simultaneously with that in L.A., but the historical
record to support this is much thinner. One of the
journalistic advocates of this scenario is Jeff Leen, a
self-styled cocaine expert formerly with the 
Miami
Herald
. If Leen is correct, however, it means he
missed the story by about four years. His first article on
crack (which he erroneously referred to as "free-base"
throughout) didn't appear until December 30, 1985, a
month after the 
New York Times
 announced its
presence on the Eastern seaboard. See Jeff Leen,
"Freebase Coke Use Sweeping South Florida,"
Miami Herald
, December 30, 1985; and "A New

===== PDF PAGE 785 =====
Purified Form of Cocaine Causes Alarm as Abuse
Increases," 
New York Times
, November 29, 1985.
"law enforcement perceptions of gang involvement":
Jerome H. Skolnick, 
The Social Structure of Street
Drug Dealing
 (State of California, Office of the
Attorney General, 1988); and Skolnick, 
Gang
Organization and Migration
 (State of California, Office
of the Attorney General, 1989).
"In the early 1980s the gangs began selling crack
cocaine": 
Nontraditional Organized Crime
, GAO
Report #OSI-89–19, 47–49.
"came up empty-handed": Nick Kozel's futile crack
hunt in Miami was recounted in Dan Baum's excellent
book on the drug war, 
Smoke and Mirrors
 (Boston:
Little, Brown, 1996), 213.
"By the time the market exploded in 1984": Jesse
Katz, "Deposed King of Crack," 
L.A. Times
,
December 20, 1994.
"a cartel": The L.A. detective was Robert Sobel, and
the quote comes from his taped administrative
interview with LACSO Internal Affairs, June 15, 1988.
The transcript was filed as an exhibit to 
U.S. v. Polak
,
94 CR 00283, Central District of California.
"You name it, you could get it": Leibo, cited in Yusuf
Jah and Sister Shah'Keyah, 
Uprising
 (New York:
Scribner, 1995), 183.
"'my friends down South'": Lister, in CIA-IG, 56–57.
"several top Contra leaders were also in attendance":
Blandón, in CIA-IG, 72–73.
Montealgre, a CIA-trained Contra pilot: For Mariano
Montealgre's background, see Martha Honey, 
Hostile
Acts
 (Gainesville: University of Florida Press, 1994),
262, 355, 371–72.

===== PDF PAGE 786 =====
"off the rack": Blandón's Q&A was with defense
attorney Alan Fenster during 
U.S. v. James
.
Mundy Security Group Inc.: Corporate records on file
at California Secretary of State's Office, Sacramento.
business card found in a drug raid: Inventory of search
warrant returns, LACSO, October 27, 1986.
"looking down the barrel of a gun": Chris Moore,
interview by author.
"screaming and yelling": Gary Shapiro, interview by
author.
Green was prosecuted and disbarred: "Attorney Quits
State Bar," 
Orange County Register
, March 17, 1987;
and "Ex-attorney Given 2-year Sentence," 
Orange
County Register
, September 3, 1992.
"This firm received three DSP-73s": Memorandum
from Customs Coordinator Office of Defense Trade
Controls to Sgt. Robert Rifkin, Los Angeles County
Sheriff's Office, 
Subject: Analysis of Flow Chart
,
December 2, 1996. The memo was released as an
exhibit to the LACSO report.
"better equipment than we have": Sobel, cited in "L.A.
Law: Gangs and Crack," 
Newsweek
, April 27, 1987,
35.
Sobel's description of Ross raid from IA interview
cited above.
"numerous 9-mm Uzies": Glenn Levant, quoted in
LAPD intrade-partmental memo from Levant to
Detective Steven Polak, 
Commendation LASD/LAPD
Rock Cocaine Supplier Task Force
, January 13,
1988. Filed as exhibit to 
U.S. v. Polak
.
"hammered on who I might know": Lister's notes of the
FBI encounter were seized during a drug raid on
October 27, 1986, and released as exhibit to LACSO

===== PDF PAGE 787 =====
report.
"my relationship with Soviet agents": LACSO interview
with Lister, November 23, 1996.
"Lister was attempting to sell classified electronic
equipment": Richard Smith, interview by Sgt. Axel
Anderson, LACSO, November 13, 1996.
"They came down to see me": Neil Purcell, interview
by author.
"personnel jacket for Ronald J. Lister": Memo from
Cruz and Hartshorne, LACSO, to Neal B. Tyler,
Contact with Maywood Police Department Personnel
Department
, November 13, 1996.
"actual personnel files related to Ronald Lister": Memo
from Cruz and Hartshorne, LACSO, to Tyler, 
Contact
with Laguna Beach P.D. Personnel Department
Director
, November 12, 1996.
Fluor spokeswoman initially denied: Nick Schou,
"Tracks in the Snow," 
L.A. Weekly
, May 23–29, 1997.
a CIA officer since 1948: Bill Nelson's background
came from the Department of State's Biographical
Register, 1973, and from CIA-BASE, a computer
database operated by former CIA officer Ralph
McGehee.
'Operation Feature': Nelson's role in Angola was
reported by John Prados, 
Presidents' Secret Wars
(New York: Morrow and Co., 1986), 338–47.
civil suit filed by the widow: The lawsuit against Nelson
was reported by Jay Perkins of the Associated Press,
June 28, 1978.
North. . .frequently used phony EUCs: "U.S.
Government Stipulation on Quid Pro Quos with Other
Governments as Part of Contra Operations," filed April
6, 1989, in 
U.S. v. North
. Reprinted in Peter Kornbluh

===== PDF PAGE 788 =====
and Malcolm Byrne, 
The Iran-Contra Scandal: The
Declassified History
 (Washington, D.C.: National
Security Archives, 1993), 85–97.
"Contras can't buy weapons": Alan Fiers, testimony in
U.S. vs. Clair George
, CR91-521, U.S. District Court
of the District of Colombia, July 28, 1992, 1120–21.
spymaster died of respiratory failure: Details of
Nelson's death came from his Certificate of Death,
dated April 3, 1995, Orange County, Calif., by coroner
James Huang, M.D.
11. "They were looking in the other
direction"
parried with two journalists: Meneses, interview by
author and Georg Hodel.
"I'll be right up front": James McGivney, interview by
author, December 12, 1995.
"Mr. Blandón was considered": Charles Jones's grand
jury testimony obtained from "Transcript of
Proceedings, San Diego, California, March 15, 1995."
Jones appeared before Grand Jury No. 94–4,
Southern District of California.
"I went to Costa Rica": John Lacome, interview by
author.
"Norwin receives political protection": Agent Sandalio
Gonzalez, DEA-6, 
File Opening Report—Debriefing
of STF-78–0006 (CI)
, February 13, 1984, file GFTF-
84–4004.
Jose Marti Figueres: Charles Walston, Nancy Nusser,
"$6 million lottery ticket scam alleged in Costa Rica,"
Orange County Register
, May 11, 1991, A18; "Fraud
Charge," 
Latin American Weekly Report
, March 16,

===== PDF PAGE 789 =====
1995, 120; "Vesco Political Financing Scandal," 
Facts
on File
, July 2, 1977, 506.
"one of the most important traffickers": The OIJ
description of Meneses was contained in a summary
of wiretaps compiled during the OIJ's 1985–86
investigation of Horacio Pereira. Provided to author by
investigative journalist Douglas Vaughan.
Gonzalez's report on Meneses' recruitment and
Meneses' activities as a DEA informant are detailed in
DOJ-IG, Ch.2, pt.4, sec. 1b (1–5) and Ch.3, pt.3, sec.
G-I.
Victor Harrison and Hector Berrellez were interviewed
by the author.
Relations between the CIA and DEA offices in Costa
Rica explained in DOJ-IG, Ch.11, pt.1.
The CIA's official lack of interest in investigating drug
trafficking detailed in CIA-IG2, 45–48 and 333–340.
The former Central American station chief is quoted in
CIA-IG2, 54.
FBI agent Donald Hale's cable about Meneses and the
CIA is cited at DOJ-IG, Ch.3, pt.3, sec. H.
Meneses' partnership with a CIA operative is detailed
in DOJ-IG, Ch.2, pt.4, sec. G b(1).
"dedicated themselves to international cocaine
trafficking": Costa Rican Legislative Assembly,
Special Commission Appointed to Investigate the
Acts Reported on Drug Trafficking
, July 10, 1989.
English translation by Library of Congress.
DEA investigation of Manuel Noriega: Steve Albert,
The Case against the General
 (New York: Scribner's,
1993), 5–13.
"The people who were flying in the weapons": Lotz's
questioning by Jack Blum is attached as an exhibit to

===== PDF PAGE 790 =====
the Kerry Committee hearings, on CIS microfiche.
told a friend that he was doing it for the CIA: Manfred
T. DeRewal, letter to the author, October 29, 1996.
"Despite obvious and widespread trafficking": Kerry
Report, 122.
"looking in the other direction": Chavarria, interview by
author and Georg Hodel.
"no credible evidence": Jack Lawn, testimony in Kerry
Report, 144. Jack Blum confirmed to the author that
the DEA officer interviewed by him in Costa Rica was
Nieves.
OIJ raided the San Jose home of. . .Troilo and
Isanaqui Sanchez: Guillermo Fernandez, "Trafficker
Condemned to 12 Years Paid Bail and Escaped," 
La
Nacion
, November 26, 1986.
"pillows full of cocaine": Leonardo Zeledon Rodriguez,
cited in "Contra Accuses other Rebels of Corruption
and Drug Trafficking," UPI, April 26, 1986. He was
interviewed in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, from his bed at
the Military Hospital School, where he wound up after
being savagely beaten and paralyzed.
"help move drugs to the U.S.": Meneses and
Chamorro, CIA-IG, 49.
Among those captured on the wiretaps: The list of men
captured on the Pereira tapes is from the OIJ summary
of wiretapped conversations, which contains a
description of each caller.
"a personal friend of Manuel Noriega": Pastora's
description of Gonzalez was contained in CR Pros.
"drug trafficking activities of Sebastian Gonzalez": CIA
cable summarized at 48, CIA-IG.
CBS Evening News:
 The transcript of the CBS
broadcast was an exhibit to the Kerry Report, 410.

===== PDF PAGE 791 =====
"precisely in that period": CR Assy 2, 70.
"there were certainly substantiated cases": Joseph
Fernandez, testimony to the House Select Committee
to Investigate Covert Arms Transactions with Iran and
U.S. Senate Select Committee on Secret Military
Assistance to Iran and the Nicaraguan Opposition,
May 29, 1987, in executive session as declassified,
84.
Pastora admits all that: Eden Pastora, interview by
Georg Hodel.
Pastora's relationship with the CIA, CIA-IG2, 74–5.
"We attempted to diminish his influence": Fernandez
joint testimony, 84.
Octaviano Cesar's relationship with the CIA, CIA-IG2,
105.
"they told me they were CIA agents": Morales testified
before the Kerry Committee, April 7, 1986, and March
27, 1987.
close associate of. . .John Hull: Marcos Aguado's
relationship with John Hull is discussed in a January
12, 1989, report from Jorge Calderon Gómez, Chief of
Various Crimes Section; Alfredo Chacon, Judge of
Crimes of Transit, and Norman Moya Orrieta, Chief,
Department of Criminal Investigation, OIJ, to Jorge
Chavarria, No. Info. 052DV-8.
Morales later passed a DEA-administered lie detector
test: Letter from DEA regarding results of test
reprinted in Kerry Report, 382.
planeloads of weapons were flown: Fabio Ernesto
Carrasco and Gary Wayne Betzner testified as
government witnesses in 
U.S. v. Jose Rafael Abello
Silva
, 87 CR 140B, Northern District of Oklahoma,
1990. All quotes from Carrasco and Betzner in the text

===== PDF PAGE 792 =====
are from a transcript of their sworn testimony.
"There is no doubt in Fiers's mind": FBI Special Agent
Michael S. Foster, 
Record of Interview of Alan D.
Fiers
, July 27, 1991, file IC 600–1, 10. Partly
declassified and released to author by the National
Archives.
"it's my own government": Hull, interview by author.
"I called our contact at the CIA": Douglas Farah and
Walter Pincus, "CIA, Contras and Drugs: Questions in
Links Linger," 
Washington Post
, October 21, 1996.
This story, done in response to my series, reported
something that the 
Post
 had known for a decade.
Chamorro identified him in an interview: Chamorro,
interview by Georg Hodel.
"two individuals who were associated with Pastora":
Fernandez joint hearing testimony, 84–85.
an aged C-47 cargo plane: The C-47 is discussed in
the Kerry Report, 51.
"repeatedly piloted": Jonathan Kwitny, "Money, Drugs
and the Contras," 
Nation
, August 29, 1987.
when he quit the war: Marcos Aguado, interview by
Georg Hodel.
"a man who always had money": Pastora testified
about Blandón's background to the Senate Intelligence
Committee, November 1996.
"We reported it": Fiers' testimony was to the Iran-
Contra Committees.
Saborio was frequently quoted: "Commander Zero
Wages Battle for Cash on the Air," 
Miami Herald
,
February 20, 1985; "Zero Pleads for Army Funds,"
Miami Herald
, February 16, 1985; "Sandinista Foes
Tentatively Agree on Unity, Rebel Says," 
Miami
Herald
, February 6, 1985; and "Pastora Secretly

===== PDF PAGE 793 =====
Visits Miami, Washington Seeking Aid from US,"
Miami Herald
, February 21, 1984.
"Saborio was a close friend of Blandón": Carol Prado,
interview by author and Georg Hodel.
"a Contra member named 'Dr. Sabario'": Ronald
Lister's contact with Saborio reported in CIA-IG, 57.
posted part of Chepita Blandón's bond: 
U.S. v.
Chepita Blandón et al
., "Short Form Deed of Trust
and Assignment of Rents Securing a Personal Surety
Bond to the United States of America," Trustor, Felix
Saborio, July 29, 1992.
two Associated Press reporters: The AP story was
written by Robert Parry and Brian Barger and moved
in the U.S. on December 20, 1985, appearing in
several American newspapers in truncated form. It was
the first report by an American journalist of Contra
involvement in drug trafficking. Interestingly, the AP
thought it necessary to add Parry's and Barger's
journalism awards and experience to the end of the
story, apparently to persuade newspaper editors that
the report should be taken seriously.
editors sat on the piece for weeks: Robert Parry,
interview by author.
"diminish Pastora's influence": Fernandez testimony to
the Senate Select Committee on Secret Military
Assistance to Iran and the Nicaraguan Opposition,
April 20, 1987, 269.
"responsive to the CIA": Lawrence Walsh, 
Firewall
(New York: Norton, 1997), 278.
"The concern about Chamorro": Owen memo to North,
Subject: Southern Front
, April 1, 1985. Released as
an exhibit, RWO7, to Owen's testimony before the Iran-
Contra Committees.

===== PDF PAGE 794 =====
"most of them were true": Secord's comments to
Leslie Cockburn were reported in the U.S. District
Court opinion in 
Secord v. Cockburn
, Civil Action 88–
0727, District of Colombia Federal Court, dismissing
Secord's libel suit against Cockburn for suggesting he
knew of Contra drug trafficking in her book 
Out of
Control
 (New York: Atlantic Monthly Press, 1989).
"They certainly had to get their act together":
Fernandez Senate testimony, 306.
"they wanted them moved out": Owen's testimony
regarding UDN-FARN comes from his deposition in
Avirgan v. Hull
, Civil Action 86–1146 and 87–1545,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida,
February 9, 1988, 607–8.
"the last time I remember Negro Chamorro":
Fernandez Senate tesimony, 307.
12. "This guy talks to God"
The description of Spadafora's wounds comes from R.
M. Koster and Guillermo Sanchez, 
In the Time of the
Tyrants
 (New York: Norton, 1990), 19–31.
"reportedly the best known guerrilla fighter": DEA
description of Spadafora was contained in a heavily
censored DEA-6, file G3-85–0094, September 12,
1986, released to author under FOIA.
A particularly thought-provoking piece on Noriega's
alleged involvement with the Spadafora murder and
drug trafficking in general is "Uncertain Justice," by
Peter Eisner, Miami New Times, Mar. 26, 1998. The
verdict of Noriega's 1993 trial in Panama was
contained in this story.
story that first exposed Noriega: Seymour Hersh,

===== PDF PAGE 795 =====
"Panama Strongman Said to Trade in Drugs, Arms
and Illicit Money," 
New York Times
, June 12, 1986.
"Dr. Spadafora was a very honest man": Floyd Carlton
testified before the Kerry Committee on February 10,
1988. His quotes are taken from a transcript of that
testimony.
had lost $1.8 million in cash: Some of the details of
Carlton's operations in Costa Rica were reported by
Martha Honey, 
Hostile Acts
 (Gainesville: University of
Florida Press, 1994), 358–63.
CIA cable reporting on Spadafora's meetings with
Nieves contained in CIA-IG2, 116. CIA cable
regarding Gonzalez and Winston Spadafora contained
in CIA-IG2, 117.
ordered Gonzalez arrested: Details of Gonzalez's
alleged involvement in Spadafora's death, his arrest
and denials, were contained in interviews conducted
with Gonzalez by investigative reporter Douglas
Vaughan during Gonzalez's imprisonment in Panama
in March 1990.
North and Noriega struck a very important bargain:
North's involvement with Noriega summarized in Kerry
Report, 91–97. See also "U.S. Government Stipulation
on Quid Pro Quos with Other Government as Part of
Contra Operations," filed April 6, 1989, in 
U.S. v.
North
. Reprinted in Peter Kornbluh and Malcolm
Byrne, 
The Iran-Contra Scandal: The Declassified
History
 (Washington, D.C.: National Security Archives,
1993), 85–97.
"I took the initiative myself": Norman Bailey testified
before the House Select Committee on Narcotics
Abuse and Control, March 29, 1988.
"he was the top gun": Alan Fiers, testimony at 
U.S. v.

===== PDF PAGE 796 =====
Clair Elroy George
, 91 CR 521, 92 CR 215, U.S.
District Court for the District of Columbia trial, July 28,
1992.
"The CIA's strategy determined what North would do":
Lawrence Walsh, 
Firewall
 (New York: Norton, 1997),
275. Walsh was not the only one who believed this. In
Eclipse: The Last Days of the CIA
 (New York: William
Morrow, 1992), Mark Perry wrote, "While many CIA
officers who became entangled in the Iran-contra
scandal disagree about many of its details, they are
convinced that Casey used Oliver North in order to
circumvent the agency's unwillingness to participate in
high-risk activities. North became Caseys' unofficial
director for operations and the acknowledged inheritor
of his activist dream" (48).
"turned out to be absolute truth": Fiers, testimony at
U.S. v. George
, July 31, 1992.
During one late-night conversation: Ibid., July 28, 1992.
"to a GS-15, this guy talks to God": Fernandez,
testimony to Senate, 505.
"Air resupply of the Contras was the key": Fiers,
testimony at 
U.S. v. George
, October 28, 1992.
North simply "hijacked" it: North's plans for controlling
NHAO were spelled out in a secret July 29, 1985,
memo entitled "Concept for Providing Humanitarian
Aid to the Nicaraguan Resistance," on file at National
Security Archives.
Robert W. Owen: Owen's background came from his
immunized testimony to the Iran-Contra committees.
"That man has all of the attributes": Fernandez on
Owen, joint Committee testimony, 62.
"I might have gone with the CIA": Owen's plans
regarding the CIA were contained in his testimony in

===== PDF PAGE 797 =====
U.S. v. North
, 88 CR 80, U.S. District Court for the
District of Columbia, February 24, 1989.
"I did ask him to find out about things": Fernandez,
Senate testimony, 319.
"I certainly didn't see the necessity": Deposition of
Robert W. Duemling before the Senate Select
Committee on Secret Military Assistance to Iran and
the Nicaraguan Opposition, August 30, 1987, 68.
"what, in fact, Rob Owen could do": Deposition of
Chris Arcos, Senate Iran-Contra Committee, 41.
"Owen will be expendable": "Highlights of RIG meeting
of October 17, 1985," memo by Duemling, reprinted in
Kornbluh and Byrne, 
Iran-Contra Scandal
, 144–45.
"He probably had the most extensive network":
Fernandez on Owen's contacts, Senate testimony,
447.
Frigorificos de Puntarenas: Kerry Report, 43.
congressional testimony of former Medellín cartel
accountant: Ramon Milian Rodriguez testimony,
February 11, 1988, Kerry Report, 260–61.
cartel 
had
 given the Contras $10 million: Carlos
Lehder's testimony at Noriega's trial, in Albert, 
Case
against the General
, 332–34.
investigation of a 1983 bombing of a Miami bank:
Reprinted in Kerry Report, 371–81.
Frigorificos was being used by the Contras: Fabio
Ernesto Carrasco testimony from 
U.S. v. Jose Rafael
Abello Silva
, ease 87 CR 140B, Northern District of
Oklahoma, 1990.
"helpful to the cause": Owen's testimony regarding
Frigorificos contained in his deposition in 
Avirgan v.
Hull
, Civil Action 86–1146 and 87–1545, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida, February 8, 1988.

===== PDF PAGE 798 =====
Aviles. . .notarized affidavits: The Aviles notarizations
were reprinted in the Kerry Report, 411. Author found
additional document in NHAO records on microfiche at
National Security Archives.
never-explained transfers: The record of the
Frigorificos bank account wire transfers was reprinted
in the Kerry Report, 364.
The GAO findings regarding the laundered
humanitarian aid money were revealed at a May 1,
1986, hearing of the Subcommittee on Western
Hemisphere Affairs of the House Committee on
Foreign Affairs. When the GAO attempted to find out
where the broker accounts had sent the money, the
State Department objected on grounds that the
information was classified.
manager, Moises Nunez, was a CIA agent: Brian
Barger, "CIA Officer Linked to Surveillance on Two
Reporters," UPI, February 12, 1988.
"small, professionally managed rebel naval force":
Vidal, 
Projections for a Naval Force in the Atlantic
Coast
, memo proposing a Contra maritime operation,
February 10, 1986, on file at the National Security
Archives.
Felipe Vidal's criminal history and association with the
Contras, CIA-IG2, 160–165.
"person who might help with the boats": Owen, memo
to North, 
Overall Perspective
, March 17, 1986,
reprinted in Kornbluh and Byrne, 
The Iran-Contra
Scandal
, 56. Owen updated North on the progress of
the operation again on April 7, 1986, in a memo
introduced as exhibit TC-15 to Fernandez's joint
testimony.
Interrogation of Moises Nunez and the CIA's

===== PDF PAGE 799 =====
responses, CIA-IG2, 152–56.
"a shell entity": Fiers on NHAO, testimony at 
U.S. v.
George
, October 28, 1992.
DIACSA was run by a Cuban drug dealer: DEA
records regarding DIACSA are reprinted in Kerry
Report, 342–61.
"deposits arranged by. . .Oliver North": Kerry Report,
47–48.
"Caballero was CIA and still is": Carol Prado, interview
by author and Georg Hodel. 1985 CIA cable cited in
CIA-IG2, 261.
Floyd Carlton testified: "Drug Smuggler Admits Flying
Arms to Contras," 
San Francisco Chronicle
, October
2, 1991.
"largest marijuana business cartel": Testimony
regarding Palmer was delivered by U.S. Attorney Roy
Hays at a hearing in Detroit on gangs, before a
subcommittee of the House Judiciary Committee,
August 1, 1988, 279.
"Palmer's people got caught": Fiers, FBI interview with
Iran-Contra investigators, 10.
"Nice group the Boys chose": Owen, memo to North,
February 10, 1986.
Foley was reportedly overseeing Palmer's operations:
Pat Foley's alleged involvement with Palmer came
from author's interview with Ronald Lippert, an ex-CIA
pilot who flew briefly for Palmer.
"A stop at San Andres Island": Francis McNeil,
testimony to Kerry Committee, April 4, 1988.
imprisonment. . .in 1963 for espionage: "Cuban
Tribunal Gives Canadian Pilot 30 Years," 
Houston
Chronicle
, November 24, 1963; and David Weber,
"JFK Death Spoils Propaganda Circus," 
Dallas

===== PDF PAGE 800 =====
Morning News
, December 2, 1963.
arranged to buy Lippert's DC-4: Documents regarding
the sale of the plane to Insua and Kelley were provided
to the author by Lippert.
"powerful gang of drug-smugglers": 
La Opinion
,
January 25, 1987.
"Can't we close a bank": Barry Gladden, cited by
David Satterfield, "Even Latest Fraud Probe has
Contra Tie," 
Miami Herald
, September 2, 1987.
later exposed as a drug trafficker: Jose Insua's
criminal background was admitted by him during his
cross-examination at 
U.S. v. Alfredo Duran
, 89 CR
802, Southern District of Florida, Miami Division, April
13, 1990.
List of Vortex pilots alleged to be drug dealers in CIA-
IG2, pp. 270–71. May 16, 1988 memo about CIA's
knowledge of Vortex's drug dealing cited at CIA-IG2,
pg. 280.
SETCO's ownership by Matta Ballesteros and the
Contra's use of that company contained in CIA-IG2,
pg. 258.
Fiers quoted'in CIA-IG2, pg. 253.
"One of the policy guidelines": Duemling deposition,
46.
"The transportation channel got established": Brunon,
interview by author.
Meneses's drug-laden planes were flying out: Enrique
Miranda, interview by author and Georg Hodel.
"practically unfettered": Walsh, 
Final Report of the
Independent Counsel for Iran/Contra Matters
, August
4, 1993, 1:157.
13. "The Wrong Kinds of Friends"

===== PDF PAGE 801 =====
Much of the text concerning Celerino Castillo was
compiled from three sources: Castillo's memoirs,
Powderburns
, written with Dave Harmon (Buffalo, N.Y.:
Mosaic Press, 1994); author's interviews with Castillo;
and Castillo's interviews with investigators from Iran-
Contra Independent Counsel Lawrence Walsh, most of
which were declassified by the National Archives in
1994.
agent-in-charge, Robert Stia, took him aside: Castillo,
Powderburns
, 112ndash;13.
Cuban named Socrates Sofi-Perez: Ibid.,
126ndash;27.
bounced the Cuban's story off. . .Ramiro Guerra: Ibid.,
127ndash;28. Guerra is identified in Castillo's book by
a pseudonym, Luis Aparicio.
"The woman selling tortillas": FBI agent Michael
Foster's interview with assistant regional security
officer, name deleted, December 24, 1991,
declassified and released to author by National
Archives.
"We had a capability": Alan Fiers, testimony at 
U.S. v.
George
, July 31, 1992.
"Felix Rodriguez was put into": Ibid., October 28,
1992.
"a client who could compromise": Felix Rodriguez and
John Weisman, Shadow Warrior (New York: Simon
and Schuster, 1989), 220ndash;21.
Milian tells a very different story: Milian Rodriguez,
testimony before the Kerry Committee, February 11,
1988.
"I knew him by his real name: Luis Posada Carriles":
Rodriguez, 
Shadow Warrior
, 239.

===== PDF PAGE 802 =====
Much of the information on Posada and his
connections with the Mob, drugs, and the CIA comes
from notes and memos by investigators for the House
Select Committee on Assassinations, which examined
Posada's CIA files as part of the 1970s reinvestigation
of the Kennedy assassination. The files were released
by the National Archives.
"Posada may have been moonlighting for Rosenthal":
Posada's Mob ties appear in a June 26, 1967, memo
for record regarding a DOJ investigation of Lefty
Rosenthal. Other CIA memos reflecting that
information were dated June 28, 1967. The memos
make it clear Posada was being controlled by the
Miami CIA office, JMWAVE, and at the same time
was the subject of numerous investigative reports by
the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs, the
DEA's predecessor.
"get out of Venezuela and relocate in El Salvador":
Posada's version of his arrival in El Salvador was
contained in his interview by FBI agents Michael
Foster and George Kiszynski for the Iran-Contra
investigation, February 3, 1992, released to the author
by the National Archives. His association with Col.
Levia was contained in that and in a subsequent
interview on March 16, 1992.
"seeking access to Ilopango": Charles Lane, "The
Pilot Shark of El Salvador," 
New Republic
, September
20, 1990.
How Chico Guirola wound up at Ilopango: The section
on Chico Guirola was pieced together from several
sources: Peter Cary, "Money Smuggling Charges
Dropped Against Pilot," 
Miami Herald
, June 13, 1985;
David Sedeno, "Two Given Probation, Fine in Money-

===== PDF PAGE 803 =====
Smuggling Scheme," AP, June 13, 1985; "Boca Man,
2 Others Face Sentencing Today," 
Miami Herald
,
June 12, 1985; "2 Men Plead to Federal Charges of
Trying to Smuggle $6 Million," 
Miami Herald
, May 2,
1985; Frank Greve, "Some Latin Politicians Cashing
In on Cocaine Smuggling Profits," 
Miami Herald
, April
29, 1985; Craig Pyes and Laurie Becklund, "Inside
Dope in El Salvador," 
New Republic
, April 1985; John
MacCormack, "US Hasn't Solved $6 Million Riddle,"
Miami Herald
, March 11, 1985; "The Six Million Dollar
Man," 
Time
, March 4, 1985, 50; Laurie Becklund,
"Illicit Money Figure Linked to D'Aubuisson," 
L.A.
Times
, February 19, 1985; Joanne Omang,
"D'Aubuisson Associate Arrested," 
Washington Post
,
February 16, 1985; "Bond Set for Smuggling Scheme
Suspect," 
Miami Herald
, February 12, 1985; and Phil
Ward, "Men Nabbed in Money Smuggling Scheme,"
Miami Herald
, February 8, 1985.
"Norwin was selling drugs": Enrique Miranda's
testimony contained in Nicaraguan drug trafficking
case against Norwin Meneses, filed in 1991. In
addition to his court testimony, Miranda was
interviewed extensively by Georg Hodel.
Reports concerning drug trafficking allegations against
Southern Air Transport contained in CIA-IG2, pg. 286
and pg. 340.
Details of Castillo's investigation at Ilopango and the
CIA's and DEA's responses, CIA-IG2, pp.
139ndash;146, and DOJ-IG, Chapter 10.
"a very articulate individual": Memorandum from
Walter E. Furr, Assistant U.S. Attorney, to Robert W.
Merkle, United States Attorney, 
Subject: Debriefing of
Allen Raul Rudd with Regard to a Conversation with

===== PDF PAGE 804 =====
Pablo Escobar and Others regarding a Photograph
,
February 18, 1988, released by National Archives.
Miami FBI informant, Wanda Palacios: Portions of the
Wanda Palacios story reported in "Informant's
Smuggling Tale Heart of WPLG Libel Trial," 
Miami
Herald
, July 22, 1991.
meeting with William Weld: The Weld meeting was
detailed in Kerry aide Jonathan Winer's
"Memorandum to File re: Meeting with William Weld,"
September 26, 1986.
Justice Department officials reached the same
discouraging conclusion: Justice Department memo
from Blair Dorminey to Terry Eastland, 
Subject:
Difficulty in Obtaining Information from Official
Sources on Cuban, Nicaraguan and Soviet
Involvement in Drug Trafficking
, May 19, 1986,
reprinted in the Kerry Report, 869ndash;71.
a 1988 congressional investigation raised troubling
questions: The hearings regarding the Seal sting were
held by the Subcommittee on Crime of the I louse
Judiciary Committee, July 28, September 23, 29, and
October 5, 1988.
"house belonged to a U.S. Embassy employee": Larry
Margasak, "DEA Agent: White House Leaked
Cocaine Sting to Implicate Sandinistas," AP, July 28,
1988.
In March 1985 the CIA reported: Meneses and Vaughn
relationship reported by CIA-IG, 48ndash;49.
"no action is being taken": Letter from Stephen S.
Trott, Associate Attorney General, to Guy L. Struve,
Associate Independent Counsel, March 29, 1988.
"drug trafficking activity would have been 'stumbled
on'" CIA-IC, 38.

===== PDF PAGE 805 =====
Walsh said he tried to stay away: Lawrence Walsh,
interview by author.
Edwin Corr's machinations concerning Castillo's
investigation detailed in DOJ-IG, Ch. 10 (b)(2).
Walter "Wally" Grasheim: Background obtained from
December 13, 1990, interview of Grasheim by FBI
Agent Michael Foster, for the Iran-Contra Independent
Counsel. Grasheim was also interviewed by author.
"Some of the rooms in the house": Castillo, interview
by FBI Agent Michael Foster on September 20, 1991,
for the Iran-Contra Independent Counsel.
Grasheim. . .says that the weapons were legally his:
Grasheim, interview by author.
The CIAs use of Murga is detailed in DOJ-IG, Ch. 10,
H. Castillo's second investigation of Ilopango in 1989
was detailed in DOJ-IG, Ch. 10 e.
14. "It's bigger than I can handle"
Victor Gill: Details of the Gill investigation obtained
during author's interviews with Jerry Guzzetta.
glowing piece in the 
Los Angeles Times
: Jerry
Belcher, "One-Man Narcotics Squad Cracks Major
Drug Ring," 
Los Angeles Times
, November 7, 1985.
loose cannon and a publicity hound: Complaints about
Guzzetta were contained in interviews done with
current and former Bell PD officers by LACSO
investigators in 1996.
"He hated dope dealers": Tom McReynolds, interview
by Lt. Michael Bornman, LACSO, November 20, 1996.
"did some very good work together": Retired U.S.
Customs agent Fred Ghio, interview by Sgt. Axel
Anderson, LACSO, November 18, 1996.

===== PDF PAGE 806 =====
Guzzetta and the federal agents began debriefing the
brothers: During the investigation in which the Torres
brothers served as informants, Guzzetta prepared a
series of debriefings and progress reports under the
code name "Project Sahara." The LACSO detectives
found some of the reports, which were released as
exhibits to the LACSO report in late 1996 and cited
here. But Guzzetta insists that many additional "Project
Sahara" reports have been suppressed or destroyed.
Indeed, some of the reports that were released
reference other, earlier reports that were never
released. In addition, it is obvious that some of the
released reports once contained additional pages that
are missing. Guzzetta said most of the missing reports
dealt with the Contras.
"reliability of the CI has been substantiated": Ghio's
statements were contained in a U.S. Customs Service
"Significant Activity Report" dated August 9, 1986,
ease LA02PR6LA005. It was released as an exhibit to
the LACSO report.
Roberto Orlando Murillo, the uncle of Blandón's wife:
Orlando Murillo's background came from his Uniform
Application for Securities Industry Registration dated
July 24, 1984, on file with the Florida Comptroller's
Office, file 018432, and from interviews with Murillo by
the author and Georg Hodel.
"cream of the crop": Jay Lichtman's quote appeared in
Victor Merina, "Deputies Portrayed as Criminals," 
Los
Angeles Times
, October 12, 1990.
a hard man to impress: Tom Gordon, interview by
author.
one of the biggest cases he'd ever handled: Lt. Dale
Gene (Mike) Fossey, interview by Sgts. David

===== PDF PAGE 807 =====
Silversparre and Robert Rifkin, LACSO, October 22,
1996.
"We haven't encountered any major network": "New
York City Being Swamped by Crack," 
Los Angeles
Times
, August 1, 1986.
Robert Stutman, the head of the DEA office: Robert
Stutman and Richard Esposito, 
Dead on Delivery
(New York: Warner Books, 1992), 213.
15. "This thing is a tidal wave"
"fueled with evocative words such as 'epidemic'":
Donna M. Hartman and Andrew L. Golub, 
The Social
Construction of the Crack Epidemic in the Print
Media
, monograph, John Jay College of Criminal
Justice, March 10, 1997. Other academic studies
relied on by the author in describing the media hysteria
in the summer of 1986 are Craig Reinarman and Harry
G. Levine, "Crack in Context: Polities and Media in the
Making of a Drug Scare," 
Contemporary Drug
Problems
, winter 1989, 535; Steven Belenko, 
Crack
and the Evolution of Anti-Drug Policy
 (Westport,
Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1993); and James Inciardi,
"Beyond Cocaine: Basuco, Crack and Other Coca
Products," 
Contemporary Drug Problems
, fall 1987,
461.
"a suddenness unprecedented": Sam Nunn's
comments were made during a July 15, 1986, hearing
of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations of
the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs.
"never heard of crack": Lawton Chiles's comments
were made at the same hearing.
"nine months ago, addiction to crack was virtually

===== PDF PAGE 808 =====
unheard of": Hamilton Fish, at a Joint Hearing on the
Select Committee on Narcotics Abuse and Control
and the Select Committee on Children, Youth and
Families, July 15, 1986.
"We have not had enough time elapse": Charles
Schuster testified at the Senate crack hearings, cited
above.
"crack has emerged": David Westrate testified at the
House crack hearings.
"We have no current data, is that correct?": The
dialogue between Benjamin Gilman and the experts
took place at the House crack hearings.
"it was going to be the use of free-base cocaine":
Robert Byck testified at the Senate crack hearings.
"that 50 is the number that got doubled": Robert Byck,
interview by author.
"real vacuum of knowledge": Belenko, 
Crack and the
Evolution
, 8.
"a hoax": Chicago reseacher quote in Inciardi,
"Beyond Cocaine," 484.
"phenomenon isolated to the inner cities": Ibid.
"least-used drug": Belenko, 
Crack and the Evolution
,
13.
In Miami. . .few cocaine customers wanted crack: "94
Arrested in Drug Sting," Miami Herald, April 4, 1986.
"growing public outcry": 
New York Times
, June 27,
1986. The 
Times's
 stories on Reagan and crack
appeared July 9, July 11, July 12, July 29, July 31,
August 5, and August 7. The "frenzy" comment
appeared August 10.
Robert Stutman, chief of: Robert Stutman and Richard
Esposito, 
Dead on Delivery
 (New York: Warner
Books, 1992), 217–19.

===== PDF PAGE 809 =====
"just in time for a crucial election": Reinarman and
Levine, "Crack in Context," 563.
"those who stand to gain the most": Golub and
Hartman, 
Social Construction of Crack
.
"quietly disbanding": "Police Quietly Disbanding South
LA Anti-Drug Unit," 
LA. Times
, October 11, 1986.
"They didn't treat it like a major issue": Jack Lawn,
cited in 
U.S. News and World Report
, August 19,
1991.
"obvious intent of Senator Kerry": Memo from Ken
Bergquist to Trott, 
Subject: Upcoming "Contra"
Hearings in the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee
, May 13, 1986, reprinted in Kerry Report,
531. Bergquist was also in contact with San Francisco
U.S. attorney Joe Russoniello, who'd collaborated with
the CIA to keep the details of the Frogman case from
becoming public. Bergquist's contacts with
Russoniello were reported in an interview of Justice
Department official Mark M. Richard, December 31,
1988, by FBI agent Michael Foster of the Walsh
investigative team.
head off attempts to obtain certain records: The
attempts to discredit Kerry's witnesses and
investigators and to stonewall the investigation
reported in Kerry Report, 147–67; and in Peter Dale
Scott and Jonathan Marshall, 
Cocaine Politics
(Berkeley: University of California Press, 1991), 125–
64.
broke the story of the Frogman case: Seth Rosenfeld,
"Big Bay Area Cocaine Ring Tied to Contras," 
San
Francisco Examiner
, March 16, 1986.
"one of the most blatant attempts at contrived news-
making": Russoniello's letter reprinted in Kerry Report,

===== PDF PAGE 810 =====
396.
White Paper subsequently circulated to Congress:
State Department document, July 26, 1986,
Allegations of Drug Trafficking and the Nicaraguan
Democratic Resistance
, reprinted in Kerry Report,
266.
interview with former Contra official Leonardo Zeledon
Rodriguez: United Press International, April 26, 1986,
in a 320-word story date-lined Tegucigalpa, Honduras.
Few, if any, U.S. newspapers carried the UPI report.
"We had a terrible, terrible time getting information":
Jack Blum, interview by author.
"Justice never provided": Page from North's diary on
file at National Security Archives, Washington, D.C.
16. "It's a burn"
Jaime Ramos: Details of the Ramos investigation
were contained in Guzzetta's "Project Sahara" reports
and in 
People v. Ramos et al
, A789038, L.A. Superior
Court.
asked the Torres brothers to show him around South
Central: Guzzetta's trip to South Central with the
Torreses was detailed in "Project Sahara" report,
September 11, 1986.
Edner confirmed that "Freeway Rick" had a name:
John Edner's investigation of Ross was contained in
an affidavit for a search warrant filed by Sgt. Robert
Tolmaire, March 1987.
"Mauldin showed up": The Stubblefield search was
discussed by Sgt. Robert Sobel during his June 15,
1988, interrogation by LACSO Internal Affairs Sgt.
James Mulay.

===== PDF PAGE 811 =====
both specifically denied: Newell's and Ross's denials
of a connection to Ramos were contained in "Interview
of Ollie Newell" by Sgt. Paul Mondry and Sgt. Susan
St. Marie, August 14, 1990, and "Interview of Witness
Ricky Donnell Ross," by Sgt. Mondry, November 15,
1990, conducted in connection with an Internal Affairs
investigation into the Ramos case, file 490-00057-
3010-444. Released as exhibits to LACSO report.
The NADDIS reports were released as exhibits to the
LACSO report, 1996.
"It's a burn": The phone message from Gonzalez was
released as an exhibit to the LACSO report.
Schrettner had debriefed a Nicaraguan informant:
Thomas Schrettner, DEA-6, 
Debriefing of SRP-86-
0018, August 25–27, 1986
, file GFRP-86-4020,
released as exhibit to LACSO report.
"loosely associated Nicaraguans. . .": Thomas
Schrettner, DEA report, August 1986.
Details of Thomas Schrettner's and Douglas Aukland's
investigations of the Blandón ring in the summer of
1986 are contained in Statements from DEA Agent
Thomas Schrettner, November 15, 1996, and Interview
of FBI Special Agent Douglas Aukland, November 18,
1996, both taken by Sgt. Joseph Hartshorne and
released as exhibits to LACSO report. Additional
details are found in DOJ-IC, Ch. 2, part 1, sections B
through E.
"The allegations were": Sgt. David Silversparre and
Sgt. Robert Rifkin, 
Interview of Retired Lieutenant
Dale (Mike) Fossey #029600
, October 22, 1996,
released as exhibit to LACSO report.
"FBI might 'burn' them": Sgts. Rifkin and Silversparre,
Interview of Retired Captain Robert Wilber
, October

===== PDF PAGE 812 =====
18, 1996, released as exhibit to LACSO report.
17. "We're going to blow your fucking
head off"
Joseph Kelso, an undercover informant: The Kelso
case was discussed in 
Additional Views of Honorable
Peter W. Rodino Jr., Honorable Dante B. Fascell,
Vice Chairman, Honorable Jack Brooks and
Honorable Louis Stokes: Report of the
Congressional Committees Investigating the Iran-
Contra Affair
 (Washington, D.C.: Government Printing
Offiee, 1987), 643.
Most of the details of Kelso's misadventures in Costa
Rica were obtained from his three-volume deposition
in the ease 
Avirgan v. Hull
, Civil Action 86–1146 and
87–1545, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Florida, May 23, 1988. Kelso was also interviewed by
the author.
German-born arms dealer. . .named Heinrich Rupp:
For a fuller discussion of Rupp's mysterious activities
in Colorado, see Stephen Pizzo, Mary Fricker, and
Paul Muolo, 
Inside Job: The Looting of America's
Savings and Loans
 (New York: HarperPerennial,
1991), 182–86.
arrested by the U.S. Customs Service: Mark Thomas,
"2 Plead Guilty in Try to Sell Missiles to Iraq," 
Rocky
Mountain News
, March 23, 1983; Sue Lindsay, "2
Fined, Put on Probation for Plan to Sell Arms to Iraq,"
Rocky Mountain News
, May 4, 1983.
some DEA records concerning Kelso: The existence
of DEA records regarding Kelso is evidenced in the
footnotes to the Rodino minority report and from an

===== PDF PAGE 813 =====
interview the author conducted with former Iran-Contra
attorney Pam Naughton, who viewed the records.
"both Nieves and Sandy Gonzalez, were connected
with the CIA": Gloria Navas, interview by author and
Georg Hodel.
"Sometimes the lines really got blurred": Pam
Naughton, interview by author.
The notion of CIA agents using DEA offices as cover
is well grounded in recent history. See 
Report to the
President by the Commission on CIA Activities within
the United States
, June 1975, 233–34; Paul Heagen,
"CIA 'Using Drug Agency Cover,'" 
Long Beach Press
Telegram
, March 16, 1975, A3; "53 Ex-CIA Employes
Now in Drug Bureau," 
Orange County Register
,
January 26, 1975, A6; and "Weicker Reports Exhibit
of Tools for Assassinations," 
L.A. Times
, January 24,
1975.
Kelso stole Agent Nieves's briefcase: Customs agent
Gary Hilberry reported this allegation during an
interview with the author.
"Mr. LaDodge had received": All quotes from William
Rosenblatt are contained in his once Top Secret
deposition to the House Select Committee to
Investigate Covert Arms Transactions with Iran,
September 25, 1987.
"Nieves did not disguise his anger": Guillermo
Fernandez, "Informants provoke conflict between U.S.
agencies," 
La Nation
, December 3, 1986, 8A.
Owen, in a deposition, admitted being in Costa Rica:
Rob Owen was questioned extensively about the
Kelso incident during his deposition in 
Avirgan v. Hull
,
February 8, 1988. Owen was also questioned about
the Kelso case during his deposition to Senate Select

===== PDF PAGE 814 =====
Committee to Investigate Covert Arms Transactions
with Iran, May 4, 1987.
"maps of coke lab locations": John Hull's report on
Kelso visit released as an exhibit to the final Iran-
Contra congressional report. Hull was interviewed by
the author.
North knew all about the Kelso affair: North's
knowledge of the Kelso affair is documented in his
notebook entries for August 26, August 27, and August
28, 1986, in which Kelso's name appears, along with
Gary Hilberry's name and phone number.
"They were thrown out": Owen's testimony about
disposing of the Kelso tapes was contained in his
deposition in 
Avirgan v. Hull
.
charged with violating his probation: Kelso's arrest
upon his return to the U.S., his court appearances, and
subsequent events are chronicled in Sue Lindsay,
"Man Claiming CIA Link Sentenced," 
Rocky Mountain
News
, February 24, 1987; and Lindsay, "Man Citing
Betrayal by CIA Tells Story," 
Rocky Mountain News
,
March 1, 1987.
attempt to help an Italian financier buy MGM studios:
Alan Citron and Michael Cieply, "Financing Details
Add Bizarre Twist to MGM Saga," 
Los Angeles
Times
, April 24, 1991.
went to work for. . .Guardian Technologies: Nieves
was contacted at the offices of Guardian Technologies
by the author but he declined to answer questions.
18. "We bust our ass and the
government's involved"
Sergeant Tom Gordon. . .applied for a warrant: Copy

===== PDF PAGE 815 =====
of search warrant and affidavit provided to author by
source.
"'clean pockets'": Alan Fiers's testimony delivered
during 
U.S. v. George
, July 28, 1992.
"a 30-day investigation will culminate": 
Background
and Operational Plan
, undated, released as exhibit to
LACSO report.
"pretty bitchin'. . .doing it anyway": William Wolfbrandt,
interview by Sgts. Rifkin and Silversparre, October 28,
1996, exhibit to LACSO report.
"there may be a CIA link": Mike Fossey, LACSO
interview.
"U.S. government baeked the operation": Virgil
Bartlett, interview by Sgt. Hartshorne and Sgt. Daniel
S. Cruz, October 16, 1996, exhibit to LACSO report.
"strange that federal agents": Jerry Guzzetta was
interviewed on three separate occasions—October 6,
November 5, and November 23, 1996—by LACSO
investigators.
"never seen the likes of it": Blandón's neighbor, who
refused to give her name, was interviewed by the
author.
Descriptions of the raids were based upon the
individual reports filed by the raid teams, which were
released as exhibits to the LACSO report, and the
author's interviews with some of the raid team
members. The items seized were listed in inventories,
which were also released with the LACSO report.
"at least one 1-ton delivery": Blandon's comments
regarding Aparicio Moreno in CIA-IG, 69.
murder of an American innkeeper: "Panel Says CIA
agents in Guatemala Linked to Rights Abuses," AP,
June 28, 1996; and "Washington: Guatemala Hid

===== PDF PAGE 816 =====
Evidence of Abuse of U.S. Citizens," AP, May 7, 1996.
Castillo believes Devine was killed by Guatemalan
soldiers: Frank Smyth, "My Enemy's Friends," 
New
Republic
, June 5, 1995.
Castillo reported Moreno's activities in Guatemala:
DEA-6, file TG-88-009, May 2,1988. The DEA
released a heavily censored copy of that report to the
author. Castillo disclosed its contents to the author in
an interview.
Juarez and his crew raced over: Juarez's raid report
released as exhibit to LACSO report. Juarez was also
interviewed about the raid by Sgts. Michael Bornman
and Daniel Cruz, October 18, 1996, summary
released with LACSO report.
"I got power!": Sgt. Art Fransen, interview by Sgts.
Rifkin and Silversparre, October 31, 1996, exhibit to
LACSO report.
"There's a bigger picture here": Richard Love,
interview by Sgts. Rifkin and Silversparre on October
17, 1996, LACSO exhibit.
Master Narcotics Evidence Control ledger: Released
as exhibit to LACSO report.
case chronology prepared in late 1986: Released as
exhibit to LACSO report.
"Blandón simply smiled": Lister's comments to the CIA
about the raid are found at 57, CIA-IG.
"a clumsy investigation": L. J. O'Neale, interview by
Sgts. Rifkin and Silversparre, November 7, 1996,
LACSO exhibit.
"Department of Defense codes": John Hurtado,
interview by Sgts. Cruz and Hartshorne, October 25,
1996, LACSO exhibit.
"transporting weapons": Dan Garner, interview by

===== PDF PAGE 817 =====
Sgts. Cruz and Hartshorne, October 10, 1996, LACSO
exhibit.
Descriptions of the bank records and Leysla
Balladares' note to Blandón contained in DOJ-IG, Ch.
4, pt. l, A2.
"Manuel Gómez was found murdered": Sgts. Cruz and
Anderson, 
Additional Information Regarding Manuel
Antonio Gomes
, November 6, 1996, LACSO exhibit;
Gómez's Certificate of Death, LA. County Coroner,
February 16, 1993; Sgt. Hartshorne, 
Interview with
Cynthia Juarez
, October 16, 1996, LACSO exhibit.
For additional information on Salvadoran death squad
activities in L.A., see Dennis Bernstein and Connie
Blitt, "Death Squad–Style Violence Haunts Salvadoran
Organizers in the 
U.S.," In These Times
, July 22–
August 4, 1987.
"vile, vicious son of a bitch": Bradley Brunon, interview
by author.
"CIA kinda winks at that activity": Brunon's CIA
conversation with Huffman was memorialized in a
handwritten chronology of events Huffman prepared in
November 1986, released as a LACSO exhibit.
Huffman confirmed the conversation in an interview
with Sgts. Anderson and Bornman, October 29,1996,
LACSO exhibit; and FBI teletype from SAC, Los
Angeles, to Director FBI, 
Subject: Front Door, Major
Case 90
, December 12, 1986, declassified and
released to author by National Archives. After
admitting it to the author, Brunon denied the
conversation took place when questioned by LACSO.
"We bust our ass": Sgts. Rifkin and Silversparre,
Interview of Retired Captain Robert Wilber
, October
18, 1996, released as exhibit to LACSO report.

===== PDF PAGE 818 =====
"Three Persons Claiming CIA Affiliation": CIA cable
filed in 
U.S. v. James
.
"If he was a major trafficker": Brian Leighton, interview
by author.
John M. Garrisi had been charged: Details about
Garrisi were found in 
In the Matter of John Mark
Garrisi, A Member of the State Bar
, 87-E-03-LA,
Decision of State Bar Court, Los Angeles, April 13,
1987; "L.A. Lawyer Gets Year in Prison for Visa
Fraud," UPI, September 26, 1987; "Lawyer Sentenced
for Iranian Immigration Scheme," AP September 25,
1987.
Garrisi had "a pipeline": Roy Koletsky, interview by
author.
director of the 
FBI
 sent a long teletype: teletype to CIA
and DIA dated December 11, 1986, filed in 
U.S. v.
James
, by the CIA.
"Scott Weekly is an arms dealer": Huffman's notes,
"Mtg @ D.D.A. Susan Deason's office, 1100 hrs, 1–
14–87," were released as exhibits to LACSO report.
19. "He reports to people reporting to
Bush"
Scott Weekly: Details of Weekly's background and
1983 POW hunt compiled from following sources:
"Thais Vow to Arrest Green Beret POW hunter," UPI,
February 21, 1983; "Gritz, Says He's on Another
Mission to Rescue POWs in Laos," AP, February 21,
1983; untitled story, UPI, a.m. cycle, March 2, 1983;
untitled story, UPI, p.m. cycle, March 2, 1983; John
Hail, "We Came Because We Believe," UPI, March 4,
1983; John Laird, "Americans Plead Guilty in Thai

===== PDF PAGE 819 =====
Court," AP, March 11, 1983; "Gritz Receives
Suspended Sentence," 
Facts on File
, April 8, 1983,
242; "Gritz Leaves Thailand," AP, June 9, 1983.
"Scott's kind of a tough little guy": Lynn Ball, interview
by author.
"combination between John Wayne and Rambo":
David Booth, speaking at Weekly's sentencing on
April 29, 1987, in 
U.S. v. Weekly
, 86 CR 281A, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Oklahoma.
"large number of demerits": Weekly's statements
about the Naval Academy, Weekly's sentencing.
"tens of thousands of dollars' worth": Steven Emerson,
Secret Warriors
 (New York: G. P Putnam's Sons,
1988), 79.
"Grand Eagle" was officially shelved: James Gritz,
testimony at hearing before the Subcommittee on
Asian and Pacific Affairs of the House Committee on
Foreign Affairs, March 22, 1983.
"Department of Defense organization": Paulson,
testimony at Subcommittee on Asian and Pacific
Affairs hearing.
"with at least initial support": Jack Anderson, "Search
for POWs in Laos Linked to CIA," 
Washington Post
,
October 15, 1984.
"had some ties to the CIA": CIA involvement with
Ronald Ray Rewald reported in Howard Kurtz, "CIA
Got IRS to Delay Audit; Intelligence Agency Was
Probing Its Ties to Investment Firm," 
Washington
Post
, December 27, 1984; and Howard Kurtz, "Closed
Hearing Set on CIA's Sporkin," 
Washington Post
,
October 4, 1985.
"if he was in the CIA, he wouldn't tell me": Weekly,
interview by Lt.

===== PDF PAGE 820 =====
Michael Bornman, November 18, 1996, LACSO
exhibit.
"suddenly exclaimed, 'Whoa!'": Sgt. Daniel Cruz,
Contact with Department of Veteran's Affairs
,
November 8, 1996, LACSO exhibit.
"international munitions deals": John Kellogg,
testimony at Weekly's resentencing, 
U.S. v. Weekly
,
July 15, 1988. See also John Standefer, "Afghan War
Claims Victim in County," 
San Diego Union Tribune
,
July 26, 1987; Ray Robinson, "Indictment Likely in
Case," 
Daily Oklahoman
, July 19, 1987; "'Bo' Gritz
Trained Rebels in Nevada Desert," UPI, May 1, 1987;
Ray Robinson, "Man Pleads Guilty to Shipping
Explosives," 
Daily Oklahoman
, December 30, 1986;
and Ray Robinson, "Sooner Explosives Aided
Afghans," 
Daily Oklahoman
, April 30, 1987.
Gene Wheaton: Wheaton, interview by author.
"paramilitary covert action program": Fiers, interview
by Walsh's FBI investigator, August 2, 1991; a
summary was declassified and released to the author
by the National Archives.
"keeping in touch with DOD": William Schneider,
interview by FBI agents working for Lawrence Walsh,
January 27, 1988; a summary of the interview was
declassified and released to the author by the National
Archives.
"North did refer to going to jail": Nestor Pino Marina,
interview by FBI, December 2, 1987, declassified and
released to author by the National Archives.
Pino. . .has a history of involvement with the CIA:
Record of interview, Nestor Pino Marina, May 20,
1987, by Walsh's investigators, released by National
Archives.

===== PDF PAGE 821 =====
Pino's relationship with Bustillo reported by FBI
Special Agent Michael Foster in a May 20, 1991,
report to the Walsh investigation, released by the
National Archives.
Bode's desk calendars: Released to the author by the
National Archives.
"The Afghan program is a covert program": William R.
Bode, interviewed in Standefer, "Afghan War Claims
Victim."
Pino's statements about the Afghan training program
contained in an affidavit to U.S. District Court,
Oklahoma City, cited in DOJ-IG, Ch.5, pt.3, 2.
"miscellaneous projects": Albert Hakim, deposition to
Iran-Contra committee, May 1987.
"She was sitting in her apartment": Stephen Korotash,
interview by author.
Weld's notes of the briefing: Iran-Contra files of
Lawrence Walsh, released by the National Archives.
"proceed with such cases?": Bill Price, interview by
author.
Richard already had some background: Edward
Spannaus, "How DOJ Official Mark Richard Won the
CIA's Coverup Award," 
Executive Intelligence
Review
, July 7, 1995, 73–75.
Richard was grilled about that briefing: Deposition of
Mark Richard before the House and Senate Select
Committees, August 19, 1987. The notes of Richard's
conversations with Price were attached as exhibits to
the deposition.
federal prisoner, Jose Bueso Rosa: Information on
Bueso Rosa compiled from Warren Fiske, "What did
North know?" 
Norfolk Virginian Pilot
, October 22,
1994; Jefferson Morley and Murray Waas, "A Favor for

===== PDF PAGE 822 =====
a Felon," 
Washington Post
, May 29, 1994; Jefferson
Morley, "Dealing with Noriega," 
Nation
, August 27,
1988; Murray Kempton, "Panama's High Finance,"
Newsday
, February 7, 1988: Neil Roland, "North Tried
to Hush Honduran," UPI, November 22, 1987; Susan
Rasky, "North Urged Leniency For Honduran Linked to
Assassination Plot," 
New York Times
, February 23,
1987; 'Army Ex-Chief Sentenced in Coup Plot," 
Facts
on File
, September 5, 1986, 662; "Former General
Sentenced in Assassination Plot," UPI, July 24, 1986;
"General Arrested in Coup Plot," 
Facts on File
,
December 20, 1985, 954; "Honduras: Two Former
Top Officers Dishonorably Discharged," Inter Press
Service, November 5, 1985; Charles Babcock,
"Account of Assassination Plot Reads Like TV Script,"
Bergen Record
, August 16, 1985; and Oliver North's
PROFS notes regarding the case, on file at the
National Security Archives.
"triumph for the Administration's policy": Francis J.
McNeil testified to the Kerry Committee about the
Bueso Rosa ease, April 4, 1988.
"Bueso Rosa. . .had information": Nestor Pino Marina,
interview by FBI agents working for Walsh, May 13,
1987, released by the National Archives.
"in from one entrance and out the other": Mark
Richard's statements about Weekly and Bueso Rosa
were made under oath during in his August 19, 1987
deposition by the Iran-Contra committees.
Bode explained his involvement in the case to an FBI
agent working for Walsh on November 2, 1987, and
that interview was released by the National Archives.
CIA had equipped and trained. . .the 316 Battalion:
Bueso Rosa, cited in Gary Cohn and Ginger

===== PDF PAGE 823 =====
Thompson, "Unearthed: CIA Secrets," 
Baltimore Sun
,
reprinted in the 
Sacramento Bee
, July 30, 1995.
"this investigation would start and stop with me":
Weekly testified at length at his resentencing hearing.
trekked into the mountains of northern Burma: "Thais:
US Adventurer Turned Away," Reuters, September 6,
1986. Gritz's comments regarding Khun Sa were
taken from a transcript of his videotape A 
Nation
Betrayed
, as well as from "Burmese Rebel Links
Pentagon Official to Drug Deals," AP, June 5, 1987.
His charges of retaliation were reported in an untitled
UPI story dated July 19, 1987, datelined Oklahoma
City.
Gritz was indicted. . .for misusing a passport: Penny
Levin, "LV Grand Jury Indicts Gritz on Passport
Misuse," 
Las Vegas Sun
, May 21, 1987; Phil LaVelle,
"Gritz Surrenders, Alleges U.S. Backing," 
Las Vegas
Review Journal
, June 4, 1987; and LaVelle, "Gritz
Cites Conspiracy in Passport Rap," 
Las Vegas
Review Journal
, June 6, 1987.
20. "It's a sensitive matter"
Susan Bryant-Deason. . .told police: Curtis A. Hazell,
Head Deputy, Major Narcotics and Forfeiture Division,
"Confidential Memorandum to Hie," Subject: Blandon
Investigation," October 16, 1996, LACSO exhibit; and
R. Dan Murphy, Assistant District Attorney, to Capt.
Neal B. Tyler, confidential letter, October 23, 1996,
LACSO exhibit.
All details of the 1986–87 investigation of Blandón
conducted by agents Aukland and Schrettner, the
details of Norwin Meneses's relationship with the DEA,

===== PDF PAGE 824 =====
the involvement of CIA agent Roberto and the L.A.
meetings were primarily contained in DOJ-IG, Ch. 2,
pt. 4, Sec. F (The Initiations of the Federal OCDETF
Case); Sec. G (The 1987 Los Angeles OCDETF
Investigation), and Sec. H (Closure of the OCDETF
Case).
Aukland's interviews with the Secret Service agent and
Lister's realtor are cited in a December 8, 1986 FBI
teletype, "Re: Butelcal SSA (deleted) LA, SSA
(deleted) FBIHQ," released by National Archives to
journalist Nick Schou, and an "Immediate" FBI teletype
from LA. to FBI Headquarters, December 12, 1986.
"Back then Ricky Ross was a major dealer": Robert
Sobel, Internal Affairs interview.
"Ross was a vital link": Glenn A. Levant, LAPD
intradepartmental memo to Detective Steven Polak,
Commendation LASD/LAPD Rock Cocaine Supplier
Task Force
, January 13, 1988.
Freeway Rick Task Force: Steve Polak, interview by
author; and Polak, "Fact Sheet re: Full Cash Overtime
for Major FES Narcotics Div.," January 1987.
"All of his locations": LACSO internal affairs interview
of Sobel, June 15, 1988.
"He's become quite a heavyweight": Sandy Wasson,
quoted in "Drug Fugitive Captured in Closet," UPI,
November 30, 1989.
"He was a 
good
 bad guy": ABC News, 
Day One
, "The
Crime Crisis: Freeway," November 29, 1993.
"Robin Hood–type guy": James Galipeau, cited in
Jesse Katz., "Deposed King of Crack," 
L.A. Times
,
December 20, 1994.
"He kind of fancied himself": Daryl Kelley and Victor
Merina, "Query Focuses on Sheriff's Sergeant,

===== PDF PAGE 825 =====
Deputies He Led," 
Los Angeles Times
, November 16,
1989.
"What he did, he poisoned tens of thousands of
people": Steve Polak, interview by author.
Polak and his men hit the Freeway Motor Inn: "Rock
Cocaine Supplier LAPD/LASD'Task Force Weekly
Activities Report 1–21–87 through 1–27–87."
"Going after my mom": Ross, interview by author.
Details of the detention of Annie Ross came from
Sobel's LACSO internal affairs interview, June 15,
1988.
"a cartel": Sobel, LACSO internal affairs interview.
"your wife will be in a psychiatric hospital": Blandón,
testimony in 
U.S. v. James
.
"widespread patronage from the Latin community":
Bradley Brunon, quoted in transcript of a May 20,
1992, detention hearing, 
U.S. v. Blandón
.
"Roger Sandino was one of these guys": Brunon,
interview by author.
Sandino was arrested: Cable from DEA Miami F/O to
DEA HQS, October 27, 1980, file Gl–81–0002.
set up an import-export business: Corporate records
of Rosamar International Trading Inc., H26741, on file
at Florida Division of Corporation. The attorney who
served as Sandino's agent, John Spittler Jr., was also
an officer in Inter-America Media Corp. and the agent
for Los Ranchos De Miami Inc.
busted again in April 1986: The Norfolk, Virginia, bust
was described in Dorothy Gast, "700-pound Cocaine
Bust Called Largest Ever in Mid-Atlantic," AP, April 8,
1986.
DEA issued a fugitive warrant: Sandino's "Fugitive
Declaration," filed by DEA on January 12, 1987, DEA

===== PDF PAGE 826 =====
file GZ-86–0002.
"Everywhere you go": Jerome H. Skolnick, 
The Social
Structure of Street Drug Dealing
 (State of California,
Office of the Attorney General, 1988); and Skolnick,
Gang Organization and Migration
 (State of California,
Office of the Attorney General, 1989).
"Gang members have flooded the market": Bill Bryan,
"Police Fighting a Rising Drug Tide," 
St. Louis Post-
Dispatch
, March 12, 1989.
Brian "Waterhead Bo" Bennett: "Arrests Cut Key
Cocaine Link in L.A., Police Say," 
Los Angeles
Times
, November 30,1988; Ross, 1996 LACSO
interview; and files from 
U.S. v. Villabona
, 88 CR
972b, Central District of California, provided to the
author by Mario Villabona. In his appeal, Villabona
claimed he was set up for arrest by a CIA informant
and former Contra, William Guzman.
"plunged a knife into the doll's head": U.S. Department
of Justice's trial memorandum, August 30, 1991, in
U.S. vs. Amers
, 90 CR 111.
"jokes about the dope they had ready": Sobel's
comments regarding Polak and the planting of cocaine
came from "Inquiry into LAPD May Jeopardize Drug
Cases," 
L.A. Times
, October 3, 1990.
"I looked in the rearview mirror": Details of the April
1987 shooting incident were gleaned from Ross's
testimony, 
U.S. v. James
; Sobel, 1988 interview with
the Sheriff's IA investigators; and the 1991 DOJ trial
memorandum in 
U.S. vs. Amers
.
The LAPD issued a press release: "Fact Sheet for
Immediate Release," Los Angeles Police Department
Narcotics Division, May 18, 1987.
dropped by the jail to inspect their prize: U.S. DOJ trial

===== PDF PAGE 827 =====
memorandum, August 30, 1991, 24, filed in 
U.S. vs.
Amers
. Additional details obtained during interviews
with Ross and Alan Fenster; and Kelley and Merina,
"Query Focuses on Sheriff's Sergeant."
21. "I could go anywhere in the world
and sell dope"
"It was real cool": Quotes from Ross through this
chapter came from interviews with the author and his
testimony in 
U.S. v. James
.
Macario was deeply involved with the FDN: Jose
Macario Estrada, interview by author.
attorney Carlos Icaza: Information regarding Carlos
Icaza was obtained during interviews with Icaza by
author and Georg Hodel. His alleged involvement with
the CIA was reported in "Nicaragua Charges CIA Plot,
Expels Diplomats; U.S. Retaliates," 
Facts on File
,
June 10, 1983, 423; and 
CIA Conspiracy in
Nicaragua
, June 1983, a booklet provided to the
press by the Nicarguan government at the press
conference announcing the arrests.
His and his wife's involvement with the FDN was
reported in "Bomb Explodes Outside Home of Contra
Spokeswoman," AP, March 6, 1987; and "Home of
Nicaraguan Rebel Spokeswoman Bombed," Reuters,
March 6, 1987.
Macario was appointed to a blue-ribbon commission
by the FDN: Sandra Dibble, "Contras Ask Panel to
Audit Funds," 
Miami Herald
, August 16, 1986.
restaurant became a hangout for Contra leaders: La
Parrilla's use as a Contra forum reported in Maria
Jose Cartagena, "Nicaraguans Seek to Ease Path for

===== PDF PAGE 828 =====
Fellow Exile Professionals," 
Miami Herald
, December
20, 1987.
Restaurant reviews included: Lucy Cooper, "La
Parrilla: Nicaraguan Food at Its Best," 
Miami Herald
,
October 24, 1986; Lucy Cooper, "Feast Your
Fantasies at South Florida's Finest Restaurants,"
Miami Herald
, January 2, 1987; Ivonne Rovira Kelly,
"La Parrilla Makes a Name for Itself," 
Miami Herald
,
August 8, 1985; and Geoffrey Tomb, "The Good News,
Part 3," 
Miami Herald Tropic Magazine
, June 15,
1986.
Alpha II Rent-a-Car: 
In re: Alpha II Rent-A-Car
, case
90–13670, Federal Bankruptcy Court, Miami, June 1,
1990.
"if the right person paged me, I'd get up": Jesse Katz,
"Deposed King of Crack," 
L.A. Times
, December 20,
1994.
"I knew the recipe": Al Salvato, "The Man Who Brought
Crack to Town," 
Cincinnati Post
, October 24, 1992.
(Salvato was the author's journalism school professor
in 1975.) An additional story containing information
about Ross's operations in Cincinnati was: George
Lecky, "Feds: Gang Leader Built Network in
Cincinnati," 
Cincinnati Post
, April 16, 1990.
Justice Department descriptions of Ross' cocaine
network in Cincinnati are found in DOJ-IG, Ch. 6, pt.3,
Sec. 2, and Sec. 4a.
"In 1987, we had lots of crack": Robert Enoch, quoted
in Salvato, "Man Who Brought Crack."
"a guy who could sell Popsicles to an Eskimo": Ernest
Halcon, quoted in Katz, "Deposed King of Crack."
Cincinnati authorities finally discovered: Details of the
police investigation and the affair Ross's girlfriend had

===== PDF PAGE 829 =====
in Cincinnati were contained in the U.S. Probation and
Parole Commission's 1991 presentence report
prepared for Ross's Cincinnati sentencing.
Smith County, Texas. . .indictment: Evan P. Kirvin,
Presentence Report
, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of California, May 6, 1996, 11.
barricaded himself inside: "Police Corner Suspected
Drug Dealer in Closet," 
Los Angeles Times
,
November 30, 1989.
stories about L.A. gangbangers: Some articles and
studies describing the 1988–89 migration of Crips
and Bloods from L.A. are Theresa Monsour, "Crip
Gangs in St. Paul, Chief Says," 
St. Paul Pioneer
Press
, May 4, 1988; Lisa Levitt Ryckman, "Crips,
Bloods Turn into Traveling Salesmen for Big Drug
Money," AP, May 28, 1988; Jerry Nachtigal, "Police:
L.A. Drug Gangs More Widespread Than Previously
Thought," AP, July 15, 1988; Thom Gross, "L.A. Gangs
Are Seen Here," 
St. Louis Post Dispatch
, July 17,
1988; Denise Hamilton, "Study Tightly Links Gangs to
Trafficking in Cocaine," 
Los Angeles Times
,
November 15, 1988; Robert C. Unruh, "Gang Problem
Grows Deadlier in Denver," AP, December 5, 1988;
and Michael J. Ybarra and Paul Leiberman, "U.S.
Labels L.A. a Center of Drug Trade, Violence," 
Los
Angeles Times
, August 4, 1989.
"Los Angeles drug gangs are spreading cocaine":
Nachtigan, "L.A. Drug Gangs More Widespread."
"Los Angeles has become the transshipment area":
Jerry Harper, testimony in 
Federal Law Enforcement
Role in Narcotics Control in Southern California
,
hearings of the House Select Committee on Narcotics
Abuse and Control, August 23, 1988.

===== PDF PAGE 830 =====
"these emerging modern day gangsters": Robert
Bonner, testimony in 
Organized Criminal Activity by
Youth Gangs
, hearings of the Subcommittee on
Criminal Justice of the House Judiciary Committee,
June 6 and August 8, 1988.
22. "They can't touch us"
"They didn't ask me nothing about": Ricky Ross,
interview by author. Unless otherwise noted, all quotes
in this chapter from Ross are either from his interviews
with the author, or from his testimony in 
U.S. v. James
.
"Operation Big Spender": "Jury Views Video of
Alleged Money-Skimming by Deputies," UPI, October
16, 1990; and an 
L.A. Times
 series by Victor Merina,
December 1–3, 1993.
"This may be a terrible thing to say": "Deputies'
Downfall Began with Videotaped Sting" 
L.A. Times
,
December 3, 1993.
an astonishing $33.9 million in cash: The figures from
the forfeiture hauls came from LACSO.
"My men are all trained to tear flesh": Quote from
Sobel in the newsletter reported by 
Los Angeles
Times
, December 1, 1993.
Polak had liposuction performed: The cosmetic
surgery done by Polak and his wife was revealed in
U.S. v. Stephen W. Polak and Christina Townly
, 94
CR 283, April 15, 1994, Central District of California.
"Dan Garner came in my office": Harland Braun,
interview by author.
casually asked if the agent knew anything: "Jury Sees
Video of Deputies Taking Cash," 
L.A. Times
, October
17, 1990; "Drug Cash Tied to Contras, CIA in L.A.

===== PDF PAGE 831 =====
Deputies' Trial," 
San Diego Union-Tribune
, October
24, 1990; and "Judge Issues Gag Order on Lawyers,
Defendants in Sheriff's Drug Case," UPI, October 24,
1990.
"publicized matters that are likely to. . .impair the
rights": 
Declaration of Thomas Hagemann
, filed in
connection with "Government's Motion for Restraining
Order Re: Extra-Judicial Statements of Parties and
their Agents," filed October 19, 1990, 
U.S. v. Amers
,
90 CR IIIA, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California.
"Films of military operations in Central America":
Braun's writings from "Defendant Garner's Opposition
to Government's Request for Restraining Order," filed
October 23, 1990, 
U.S. v. Amers
.
Justice Department fired back: "Motion in Limine Re:
Admissibility of Defendant Garner's Testimony Re:
Conversation with Robert Sobel and/or Others About
the CIA," filed October 23, 1990, 
U.S. v. Amers
.
Judge Rafeedie. . .lashed out at Braun: Transcript of
the hearing, filed in 
U.S. vs. Amers
.
"I didn't pump 500 tons of cocaine into the ghetto":
Garner, interview by LACSO investigators..
having convinced the Costa Mesa detectives: The
details of Lister's deal with Costa Mesa police are
contained in a Memorandum of Understanding dated
August 26, 1988, between Lister and the Orange
County District Attorney's Office, filed in 
People v.
Ronald Jay Lister
, F13502, Harbor Municipal Court,
"Ball indicated that Lister": Meza's comments
appeared in CIA-IG, 59–61.
Details of Lister's plea bargain with the DEA, his
prison letter to Weekly, his letters to the court, and his

===== PDF PAGE 832 =====
role as a DEA informant are found in DOJ-IG, Ch.5,
pt.2, secs. H through K.
"received instructions from Columbia to wire transfer
the money": Lister's involvement with the Colombians
while a DEA informant is revealed in a series of DEA-
6 reports dated April 25, 1991, June 4, 1991, June 6,
1991, and June 10, 1991, filed as exhibits to LACSO
case. Additional information is contained in Assistant
U.S. Attorney L.J. O'Neale, "Government's Answer to
Defendant's Objections to Presentence Report and
Sentencing Memorandum," June 22, 1993, 
U.S. v.
Jose Enrique Urda Jr
., 92 CR 1308, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of California.
"'By the way, we want to kill this guy Lister'": Author
interviewed the prosecutor who handled the case, who
spoke on background.
"Smith waxed at length": Gale Holland, "L.A. Drug
Case Becomes Lurid," 
San Diego Union Tribune
,
October 6, 1991.
Emmick's letter on Ross's behalf cited in DOJ-IG,
Ch.6, pt.3, sec. 4c.
23. "He had the backing of a
superpower"
"I did a lot of favors to the Colombians": Blandón GJ,
18.
Colombian Humberto Cardona: Blandón identified
Cardona as one of his suppliers in two interviews with
FBI agents Don Allen and Bruce Burroughs on
October 8, 1992, and September 1, 1993, FBI file
245-B-SF-96287.
Sergio Guerra, the smooth Mexican millionaire:

===== PDF PAGE 833 =====
Guerra's background and holdings detailed in 1992
detention hearing in 
U.S. v. Blandón
.
reunited with the Meneses family: Blandón's
reinvolvement with Meneses and his kin was spelled
out in his GJ testimony.
secret indictment against Meneses: 
U.S. v. Juan
Norwin Meneses Cantarero a/k/a Norwin Meneses
,
89 CR 0064, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California, filed February 8, 1989.
Details of Meneses' indictment and work for the DEA
during 1987-90 are found in DOJ-IG, Ch. 3, pt. 3, secs.
H and I.
"it materialized that there was some information": Eric
Swenson, interview by author.
Meneses. . .began reclaiming the holdings: The
payments to Meneses and the other members of his
drug ring were discovered by Georg Hodel, who
obtained a November 30, 1996, report of
Indemnification for Unjustified Confiscation from the
Nicaraguan Ministry of Finance. Listed were convicted
trafficker Luis Enrique Meneses ($930,000); Norwin's
wife, Maritza, ($53,000), Troilo Sanchez ($353,000)
and Horacio Pereira's heirs ($30,000.)
Enrique Miranda Jaime: Miranda was interviewed
extensively by Georg Hodel and Hodel's wife, Carmen
Maria Santos, who became Miranda's attorney upon
his return to Nicaragua in 1996.
"sending guns to the FMLN in El Salvador": Meneses's
statements concerning Miranda were contained in
"Declaration to Investigators," November 20, 1991,
filed in Nicaraguan Supreme Court.
Meneses "had on his payroll": Miranda's statement
was handwritten and filed as an exhibit to the drug

===== PDF PAGE 834 =====
trafficking case against him in Nicaragua in 1992.
"you almost needed flatbed trucks": Rafael Cornejo,
interview by author.
secretly taped. . .by DEA informant John Arman: The
tapes of Arman's and Blandón's discussions were
turned over to defense lawyers during Blandón's
criminal case in San Diego in 1992 but never
introduced into evidence. The author was permitted to
hear and copy the tapes by a source who had access
to them.
"Blandón is preparing to move back to Nicaragua":
Chuck Jones, DEA-6, 
Subject: Undercover
Negotiations Between [deleted] and Suspect Danilo
Blandón
, April 12, 1990.
Arman arrived at the Old Bonita Store. . .wired for
sound: Chuck Jones, DEA-6, 
Subject: Undercover
Meeting with Sergio Guerra and Oscar Blandón
, July
23, 1990. Author also has tape of the conversation.
"going to convert it to crack anyway": Chuck Jones,
DEA-6, 
Subject: Undercover Negotiations with Danilo
Blandón
, June 14, 1991.
"They are going to put you in jail": Tapes of Blandón's
conversations with Roger Sandino were obtained by
author.
Sandino had given the DEA the slip: Chuck Jones,
DEA-6, 
Subject: Ongoing Undercover Negotiations
and Surveillance of Danilo Blandón et al
., September
15, 1991.
"He had a big wedding here": Roger Mayorga,
interview by author and Georg Hodel.
golden opportunity to arrest Blandón: The incident at
the border was described in 
U.S. v. Sergio Guerra-
Deguer
, 91 CR 810T, U.S. District Court, Southern

===== PDF PAGE 835 =====
District of California, filed Aug 27, 1991.
"money orders were on their way to Mexico": O'Neale,
comments during a detention hearing for Blandón in
1992, 
U.S. v. Blandón
, cited earlier.
LAPD strike force arrested him: Described by O'Neale
during detention hearing.
"I actually had a better case": Ron Hodges, interview
by author.
Nicaraguan lawmen were after Norwin Meneses:
Details of the Meneses investigation came from
author's interviews with Mayorga, Rene Vivas,
Miranda, Meneses, and Frank Vigil, and a review of
the case files at the Nicaraguan Supreme Court.
Vivas. . .was well acquainted with Norwin: Rene Vivas,
interview by author and Georg Hodel.
"She was something else": Roberto Vargas, interview
by author and Georg Hodel.
story made several U.S. newspapers: "Record
Cocaine Seizure," 
L.A. Times
, November 5, 1991;
and Jonathan Marshall, "Nicaraguans Arrest Ex-Bay
Man Linked to Cocaine, Contras," 
San Francisco
Chronicle
, December 16, 1991.
The DOD and State Department cables concerning
Meneses were mentioned in CIA-IG, 50–51.
"How do you explain. . .that Norwin Meneses": The
judges' questioning of Mayorga was contained in
"Declarcion Testifical," November 21, 1991, part of the
case file in the Nicaraguan Supreme Court. Mayorga
was also hauled before the Nicaraguan National
Assembly's Committee on Defense and Government
in late 1991 and grilled by Committee Chairman Frank
Duarte, a friend and attorney of Meneses
paid a deranged inmate. . .to knife Miranda: The

===== PDF PAGE 836 =====
alleged assassination attempt was reported in "He
Tried to Murder Miranda," 
Barricada
, August 22, 1992;
and "Miranda: 'Paragon para asesinarme," 
El Nuevo
Diario
, August 17, 1992.
Chamorro government fired Rene Vivas: Michael
Reid, "Chamorro Fires Police Chief to Appease U.S.,"
Manchester Guardian
, September 13, 1992;
"Sandinista Police Officers Dismissed," 
Facts on File
,
September 17, 1992, 694; and Shirley Christian,
"Managua Seesaw: U.S. vs. Sandinistas," 
New York
Times
, September 8, 1992.
24. "They're gonna forget I was a drug
dealer"
The identity of the media representatives were
contained in media permission requests in Ross's
prison files from Phoenix, which Ross made available
to the author.
"Soft-spoken": Erin J. Aubry, "Ex-Drug Dealer Out to
Stage Turnaround," 
L.A. Times
, November 14, 1993.
"A capitalist": Al Salvato, "The Man Who Brought
Crack to Town," 
Cincinnati Post
, October 24, 1992.
"Standing on the bare stage": Aubry, "Ex-Drug Dealer
Out to Stage Turnaround."
"Next we have the story of a young man": Forrest
Sawyer, correspondent for 
Day One
, "Profile: Ex-Drug
Dealer 'Freeway' Hopes to Offer Youth Center to South
Central Los Angeles," November 29, 1993.
"more than 200 people": James Bolden, "Ricky Ross:
Ex-Drug Lord Wants to Give Back to S. Central," 
Los
Angeles Sentinel
, December 9, 1993.
"The notorious Los Angeles drug lord": Jesse Katz,

===== PDF PAGE 837 =====
"Former L.A. Drug Kingpin Is Set Free," 
Los Angeles
Times
, September 1, 1994.
Compton crack dealer, Leroy "Chico" Brown: Brown,
interview by author.
"get a little something right now": The tapes and
transcripts of some of Ross's conversations with
Blandón were introduced into evidence in 
U.S. v.
James
.
According to Blandón's notes: These notes were
introduced into evidence in 
U.S. v. James
.
"This guy won't leave me alone": James Galipeau,
interview by author; Galipeau also testified as a
defense witness for Ross in 
U.S. v. James
.
"take care of Tony": The meetings in the restaurant
parking lots were taped by Blandón, and the tapes
were introduced as evidence in 
U.S. v. James
.
"saga of Ricky Ross' rise and fall": Jesse Katz,
"Deposed King of Crack," 
L.A. Times
, December 20,
1994.
"Let him pay": Polak, quoted in Katz, "Deposed King
of Crack."
"They burned rubber": Charles Jones, testimony
before Grand Jury No. 94–4, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of California, March 15, 1995.
Ross told them everything: Judy Gustafson, DEA-6,
Subject: Arrest and Interview of Ricky Ross
, March 7,
1995.
"I cussed his Mom out": Norman Tillman, quoted in
Jesse Katz, "Sting Snares Drug Lord Who Vowed to
Go Straight," 
Los Angeles Times
, March 22, 1995.
"I caught a lot of shit": Jesse Katz, interview by author.
25. "Things are moving all around us"

===== PDF PAGE 838 =====
The quotes in this chapter were largely taken from my
interviews with the subjects mentioned, most of which
were tape-recorded and later transcribed.
I walked into a roomful of DEA agents: The quotes
from this session come from a memorandum I
prepared immediately following the meeting.
three CIA cables about me: CIA-IG, 51–52.
Georg's discovery was front-page news: Roberto
Orosco, "Escapo un grande del narcotrafico," 
La
Prensa
, November 29, 1995; and Heriberto Mercado,
"Ex militar narco escapa de prision," 
La Tribuna
,
November 29, 1995.
Miranda was captured: Miranda, whose entry into the
States was legal since he had a valid visa, was literally
kidnapped by the FBI in Miami and thrown on a plane
to Nicaragua at the request of the Nicaraguan police.
His kidnapping was covered extensively in the
Nicaraguan press. See, for example, Roberto Orosco,
"Miranda, gran jefe de la droga, enviado a Managua,"
La Prensa
, December 3, 1996, 1; Lizbeth Garcia,
"Recaptura de Miranda Jaime levanta ola de
acusactiones," 
Barricada
, December 22, 1996; Mario
Guevara Somarriba, "Recapturan en Miami al reo
Miranda Jaime," 
El Nuevo Diario
, December 24,
1996; and Leonardo Coca Palacios, "Miranda Jaime
se esfumo?" 
El Nuevo Diario
, December 29, 1996.
Miranda was finally released from prison in April 1998.
26. "This matter, if true, would be
classified"
"The United States believes": L. J. O'Neale,

===== PDF PAGE 839 =====
"Government's Motion in Limine to Preclude
Reference to the Central Intelligence Agency and for
Reciprocal Discovery," February 26, 1996, filed in
U.S. v. James
.
The conversation was recorded: The sidebar
discussions, as well as the testimony, in federal
criminal trials are tape-recorded, and the tapes are
available for purchase by any member of the public at
remarkably reasonable rates, a service that court
reporters, for obvious reasons, don't advertise. Thanks
to federal public defender Maria Forde for this
invaluable tip. The public defenders buy the tapes, she
said, because they can't afford typed transcripts either.
"taught [Ross] the trade": Jesse Katz, "Drug Trial to
Focus on Sting; DEA, Former Supplier Offer Glimpse
into World of Informants," 
Los Angeles Times
, March
5, 1996.
"I don't think my client's life": The in-court conversations
in this chapter are taken from the tapes of the
proceedings in 
U.S. v. James
.
27. "A very difficult decision"
Interviews of the jurors provided to the author by a
source.
Mercury News
 executive editor: Ceppos's comments
to 
Newsweek
 reported in "Cracks in the Story,"
November 11, 1996, 65.
New York Times
 reporter Seymour Hersh: The
reaction of the press to Hersh's story is chronicled in
Kathryn S. Olmstead, Challenging the Secret
Government (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina
Press, 1996), 33–39.

===== PDF PAGE 840 =====
"The unlimited space of the Web": The chapter on
online journalism in Encarta's 1997 yearbook was
written by Neil Chase of Northwestern University.
The Associated Press noted: Elizabeth Weise, "CIA-
Crack Story Fueled Interest in Web," AP, December 5,
1996.
A Boston Globe
 reporter: Adam Pertman, "CIA-Drug
Link Stories Outrage Blacks in L.A.," 
Boston Globe
,
October 6, 1996.
infuriated the right-wing 
Washington Times
: Bill Gertz,
"Deutch's Reaction to Drug Rumor Hit," 
Washington
Times
, September 24, 1996.
And on the editorial page: Arnaud de Borchgrave,
"Ritualistic Revival of Assaults on CIA," 
Washington
Times
, September 24, 1996.
Newsweek
 devoted an entire page: Gregory L. Vistica
and Vern E. Smith, "Was the CIA Involved in the Crack
Epidemic?" 
Newsweek
, September 30, 1996, 72.
Time
 that month: Jack E. White," Crack, Contras and
Cyberspace," 
Time
, September 30, 1996.
"Meanwhile, we continued advancing the story. . .":
Gary Webb and Pamela Kramer, "Sealed records
may show CIA drug link," 
San Jose Mercury News
,
Sept. 29, 1996, 1; Gary Webb and Pamela Kramer,
"Affadavit: Cops knew of drug ring," 
San Jose
Mercury News
, Oct. 3, 1996, 1; Gary Webb and
Pamela Kramer, "More hints of government
involvement," 
San Jose Mercury News
, Oct. 6, 1996,
1.
Eastland had a history: The Justice Department's role
in spreading disinformation about Contra drug
investigations in the mid-1980s is detailed in Joel
Millman, "Narco-terrorism: A Tale of Two Stories,"

===== PDF PAGE 841 =====
Columbia Journalism Review
, September/October
1986, 51; and Peter Dale Scott and Jonathan
Marshall, 
Cocaine Politics
 (Berkeley: University of
California Press, 1991), 177.
The 
Washington Post
 had just moved a story: Roberto
Suro and Walter Pincus, "The CIA and Crack:
Evidence is Lacking of Alleged Plot," 
Washington
Post
, October 4, 1996.
Ceppos fired off a blistering letter: Though the 
Post
didn't run it, the 
Mercury News
 posted the letter on the
Internet on the Mercury Center's Dark Alliance Web
page (www.sjmercury.com/drugs).
a story in the 
Mercury
's archives: Walter Pincus, "How
I Traveled Abroad on CIA Subsidy," 
San Jose
Mercury News
, February 18, 1967.
Pincus's previous association with the CIA: Pincus,
review of Agee's book, 
New York Times Book
Review
, August 3, 1975.
"we have withheld a great deal of information":
Pincus's appearance on the 
MacNeil/Lehrer
NewsHour
 occurred on May 12, 1986.
Walsh wrote that at a critical moment: Lawrence
Walsh, 
Firewall
 (New York: Norton, 1997), 421–22.
The 
L.A. Times
 and the 
New York Times
 struck next.:
The 
New York Times
's attack on Dark Alliance
appeared on October 20, 1996, headlined "Tale of
CIA and Drugs Has Life of Its Own." The 
L.A. Times
series ran for three days, beginning on October 20,
1996.
Katz trotted out a number of other cocaine dealers:
Jesse Katz, "Tracking the Genesis of the Crack
Trade," 
L.A. Times
, October 20, 1996.

===== PDF PAGE 842 =====
the 
L.A. Times
 absolved the CIA: Doyle McManus,
"Examining Charges of CIA Role in Crack Sales," 
L.A.
Times
, October 21, 1996.
"Sixty thousand?": Rafael Cornejo, interview by author.
McManus had played a central role: Doyle McManus
and Ronald Ostrow, "U.S. Links Top Sandinistas to
Drug Trafficking," 
L.A. Times
, July 18, 1984.
described by investigative reporter Carl Bernstein:
Bernstein, "The CIA and the Media," 
Rolling Stone
,
October 20, 1977, 55.
A day later: Ronald Ostrow, "3 Seized in Miami
Cocaine Smuggling Linked to Nicaraguan Interior
Minister," 
L.A. Times
, July 19, 1984.
McManus and Ostrow later teamed up: Doyle
McManus and Ronald Ostrow, "No Supporting
Evidence, DEA Says: Senators Probing Reports of
Contra Drug Smuggling," 
L.A. Times
, February 18,
1987.
He banged out a letter to the reporter: Cabezas
provided a copy of his letter to McManus to the author,
along with McManus's response of April 9, 1987.
Enrique Miranda, the former Meneses aide. . .had
been found in Miami. . .:Gary Webb, "U.S. gave visa to
Nicaraguan drug trafficker," 
San Jose Mercury News
,
Dec. 31, 1996, 11A.
solved one of the final mysteries of the Southern Front:
Hull's escape from Costa Rica and the DEA's
suspected involvement in it had been reported
previously and ignored by the national media. Brian
Donovan of 
Newsday
 initially reported it in 1991 as
part of a retrospective look at the bombing at La
Penca in 1984 that killed an American journalist.
Martha Honey and David Myers freelanced a piece

===== PDF PAGE 843 =====
that appeared in the 
San Francisco Chronicle
, August
14, 1991, under the headline "U.S. Probing Drug
Agent's Activities in Costa Rica." The information for
that story came largely from San Francisco private
investigator Josiah Thompson, who was hired by
defense lawyer Marvin Cahn to investigate a case
involving an accused trafficker named Juan Merino
Noriega. Merino was arrested in 1990 as part of
California's biggest cocaine bust, nearly 970 kilos, but
despite the size of the case, the Justice Department
permitted Merino to plead guilty to a money-laundering
count rather than risk having the DEA's involvement in
Hull's escape surface publicly in court.
"The United States will not discuss in this
memorandum the reason that defendant Merino-
Noriega was permitted to plead guilty to the money
laundering charge instead of the importation charges
other than to remind the Court that the reasons relate
in large part to various submissions that were made
and remain under seal," Asst. U.S. Attorney Ross W.
Nadel wrote in Merino's sentencing memorandum,
Dec. 10, 1992, 
U.S. v. Merino-Noriega
, 90 CR 0177,
Northern District of California.
I believed the story Georg and I had significantly
advanced the public knowledge of Hull's escape, since
we now had the pilot admitting everything on the
record, as well as an on-the-record interview with the
investigating agent for DEA internal affairs, who
thought Justice had covered up the case. The 
Mercury
never ran it.
Ricevuto believed Perez: Anthony Ricevuto, interview
by author.
Whether similar pressures were applied to Ceppos:

===== PDF PAGE 844 =====
Naturally, rumors swirled that the CIA or other
government agencies brought pressure to bear on the
Mercury News
's owners, Knight-Ridder Newspapers,
to torpedo my investigation and kill the follow-up
stories but I never put much stock in those suspicions.
Subsequently, I learned that Knight-Ridder has a
history of collaborating with the CIA, once agreeing to
provide journalistic "cover" for CIA agents (see John
M. Crewdson and Joseph B. Treaster, "Worldwide
Propaganda Network built by the CIA," 
New York
Times
, Dec. 26, 1977, 1). Additionally, Georg Hodel
discovered a CIA cable in a Miami court file
suggesting that a longtime editor on the Latin
American desk of Knight-Ridder's flagship paper, 
The
Miami Herald
, had an operational relationship with the
CIA during the 1960s. Suffice it to say that I am not
quite as dismissive of suspicions of government
pressure on the 
Mercury
's owners as I once was.
Shortly before I arrived at the 
Plain Dealer
: The 
Plain
Dealer
's retraction of the Jackie Presser story is
discussed in James Neff, 
Mobbed Up
 (New York:
Atlantic Monthly Press, 1989), 337–53. In addition, the
author has copies of the debriefings of the Cleveland
mobster Angelo "Big Ange" Lonardo, who reported
the reasons for the PD's retraction to the authorities.

===== PDF PAGE 845 =====
CAST OF CHARACTERS
The Contras
THE FUERZA DEMOCRÁTICA
NICARAGÜENSE (FDN)
BERMÜDEZ, ENRIQUE
—"Commandante 380," the
supreme military commander of the FDN. Former military
attache for the Somoza regime in Washington. Hired by the
CIA in 1980 to reassemble Somoza's scattered brigades
into a fighting force. Close friend of the Meneses family.
Reportedly trafficked in arms and cocaine with Norwin
Meneses. Murdered in Managua in 1991, a slaying that has
never been solved.
CALERO, ADOLFO
—Longtime CIA agent, former
manager of the Coca-Cola bottling plant in Managua.
Selected by the CIA in 1983 to lead its political wing.
Worked closely with Oliver North. Met with Norwin Meneses
several times during the years Meneses was selling drugs
for the Contras. Now a member of the Nicaraguan
Assembly.
PEÑA, RENATO
—Spokesman for the FDN branch in San
Francisco and one of Norwin Meneses's cocaine dealers.
Admitted hauling millions in drug profits from San
Francisco to Los Angeles for delivery to the Contras during
the early 1980s. Convicted of cocaine trafficking in 1985.

===== PDF PAGE 846 =====
SÁNCHEZ, FERNANDO
—Former Nicaraguan
ambassador to Guatemala, and the FDN's representative
in that country during the war. Identified by the FBI in 1982
as one of the cocaine suppliers to the Contra drug
operation in San Francisco. Brother of FDN founder
Aristides Sanchez.
SÁNCHEZ, ARISTIDES
—Wealthy landowner under
Somoza who became the head of supplies and logistics for
the FDN. Also went on the CIA payroll in the early 1980s as
an aide to Enrique Bermúdez. Allegedly served as the
conduit for cocaine money flowing from the Meneses drug
ring in California in the early 1980s. Died in Miami in 1993.
UNION DEMOCRÁTICA NICARAGÜENSE
—
FUERZA ARMADA RESISTENCIA
NICARAGÜENSES (UDN-FARN)
AVILES, FRANCISCO
—U.S.-educated Nicaraguan
lawyer and CIA asset who worked closely with the CIA in
Costa Rica in the 1980s, funneling CIA and U.S.
government funds to various Contra organizations. Brother-
in-law of top Meneses cocaine trafficker Horacio Pereira.
Directly involved in the San Francisco Frogman case in
1983, though never accused or charged with cocaine
trafficking. In 1998 Aviles was working for the Nicaraguan
government.
CABEZAS, CARLOS
—While not a member of UDN-
FARN, Cabezas supported it through his cocaine sales in

===== PDF PAGE 847 =====
San Francisco in the early 1980s. As a U.S. government
witness, he testified that his drug profits were going to
Contra organizations in Costa Rica. He pleaded guilty to
drug charges in 1984 and served several years in prison.
He is now practicing law in Managua.
CHAMORRO, EDMUNDO
—Second in command to his
brother, Fernando. Implicated in cocaine trafficking with the
Meneses organization during Costa Rican police
investigation in 1985, but never charged. Close ties to the
CIA, according to a DEA report. Current whereabouts
unknown.
CHAMORRO, FERNANDO "EL NEGRO"
—Commander
of the UDN-FARN, which was based in Costa Rica during
most of the war. An alcoholic whose army was teeming with
Cuban-American drug traffickers, terrorists, and assorted
other ne'er-do-wells. While working for the CIA, he was
approached by Norwin Meneses and asked to haul
cocaine to the United States from Costa Rica, but he was
never directly implicated in cocaine trafficking. Died in
Nicaragua in the early 1990s. (Fernando and Edmundo
were only distantly related to the influential Chamorro clan
that included martyred newspaper editor Pedro Joaquin
Chamorro.)
RAPPACCIOLI, VICENTE—CIA
 asset based in Costa
Rica. One of the leaders of UDN-FARN and related Contra
support groups. Directly involved in 1983 Frogman cocaine
case, but never charged. He reportedly died in the early

===== PDF PAGE 848 =====
1990s.
ZAVALA, JULIO
—Major cocaine trafficker in San
Francisco Bay Area during early 1980s, and top-ranking
U.S.-based member of UDN-FARN. Recruited Carlos
Cabezas into Contra drug ring. Convicted of cocaine
trafficking in 1984, he now reportedly works as an informant
for the FBI.
ALIANZA REVOLUCIONARIA
DEMOCRÁTICA (ARDE)
AGUADO, MARCOS
—CIA-trained pilot, business
associate, and reputed drug-trafficking partner of Norwin
Meneses. Aguado got ARDE commander Eden Pastora
involved with Colombian drug traffickers. Accused of
cocaine trafficking in Costa Rica, he fled to El Salvador,
where he assumed a high-ranking position with the
Salvadoran Air Force. Implicated but never charged in
Meneses's 1991 cocaine bust in Nicaragua. Currently in
San Salvador.
GONZÁLEZ, SEBASTIAN "GUACHAN"—CIA
 asset who
was heavily involved in drug trafficking in Panama and
Costa Rica. Close to Manuel Noriega. Suspected of
involvement in the beheading of Contra supporter Hugo
Spadafora, shortly before Spadafora was to make
information about Noriega's drug involvement public.
Gonzalez is a close friend of Norwin Meneses and,
according to the CIA, was a fellow cocaine trafficker during
the Contra war. Now living in Panama.

===== PDF PAGE 849 =====
PASTORA, EDeN—"Commandante Zero."
 Former
Sandinista war hero. Recruited by CIA officer Dewey
Clarridge in 1981 to assume command of the Southern
Front Contra armies based in Costa Rica. Longtime friend
of Danilo Blandón, from whom he received money,
vehicles, and rent-free lodging. Eventually broke with CIA
and was accused by the agency of consorting with drug
traffickers. Ran for Nicaraguan president in 1996.
The Investigators
CASTILLO, CELERINO
—Decorated Vietnam War
veteran, former Texas policeman, and former DEA agent
assigned to El Salvador and Guatemala during mid-1980s.
Discovered Contra cocaine trafficking at Ilopango Air
Force Base in El Salvador and began reporting it.
Subsequently subjected to numerous internal DEA
investigations and forced to retire on disability in early
1990s. Currently lives in Texas.
GORDON, THOMAS
—Veteran Los Angeles County
narcotics investigator. As a sergeant for the L.A. County
Sheriff's Office in 1986, Gordon led the investigation into
and obtained the search warrants for Danilo Blandón's drug
operation. After his retirement, he was indicted by the
Justice Department and accused of failing to report stolen
drug money as income. Convicted on income tax charges.
Currently lives in San Dimas, California.
GUZZETTA, JERRY
—Bell, California, police department's
sole narcotics investigator. Began the investigation that led

===== PDF PAGE 850 =====
to the arrests of Danilo and Chepita Blandón in 1986.
Subsequently subjected to internal affairs investigation
involving missing cocaine from evidence locker, but never
charged. Retired in early 1990s and lives in Los Angeles
area.
JUAREZ, ROBERT
—Veteran L.A. County Sheriff's Office
narcotics officer who raided Ronald Lister's house in 1986
and reported finding Contra and CIA-related material there.
Juarez, regarded as one of the department's best
undercover operatives, was subsequently indicted by the
Justice Department and convicted of stealing cocaine
money. He lives in Los Angeles.
KELSO, JOSEPH
—Former CIA operative and undercover
Customs informant. Kelso pleaded guilty to attempting to
buy Harpoon missiles for the Iraqis in the early 1980s.
Investigated allegations of the involvement of DEA agents
in cocaine trafficking in Costa Rica during Contra war. Was
beaten and threatened with death by DEA agents,
deported, and arrested for probation violation upon his
return to the United States. Now working somewhere in
Arizona.
POLAK, STEVE
—Longtime Los Angeles Police
Department narcotics investigator. One of the founders of
the Freeway Rick Task Force. Subsequently indicted on
federal charges of corruption, income tax evasion, and civil
rights violations. Pleaded guilty to misdemeanor civil rights
violations and retired. Lives in Los Angeles.

===== PDF PAGE 851 =====
The CIA and Fellow Travelers
CLARRIDGE, DUANE "DEWEY"
—Former chief of the
CIA's Latin American Division from 1981 to 1984. Oversaw
creation of Contra project and recruited many of its leaders.
Indicted in 1991 on seven counts of perjury and providing
false information to Congress during the Iran-Contra
scandal. Pardoned before trial by ex-CIA director George
Bush.
FERNÁNDEZ, JOSEPH
—CIA station chief in Costa Rica
from 1984 to 1986. Integral part of Oliver North's illegal
Contra resupply operation. Responsible for pushing Eden
Pastora out as commander of Contra forces in Costa Rica
and promoting Fernando Chamorro and his Cuban-
American legion, which included terrorists and drug
traffickers. Indicted in 1989 on four counts of providing false
information to Congress during the Iran-Contra scandal.
The case was dropped when the U.S. attorney general
refused to declassify evidence needed in the case.
Fernandez now works with Oliver North at North's publicly
traded company, Guardian Technologies, which sells
security consulting services and body armor.
FIERS, ALAN JR.
—Took over Contra project in 1984 from
Dewey Clarridge. Admitted having information on drug
trafficking through Ilopango Air Force Base in El Salvador
and also had knowledge of Contra drug dealing in Costa
Rica. Pleaded guilty to withholding information from
Congress during Iran-Contra scandal. Later pardoned by
George Bush. Now works in Washington as government
relations specialist.

===== PDF PAGE 852 =====
"GÓMEZ, IVAN"
—Pseudonym of Venezuelan CIA contract
agent who handled logistics on the Southern Front for the
Contras during the war. Identified by Carlos Cabezas as
the conduit for drug money from the Meneses organization
in San Francisco to the Contras in Costa Rica. "Gómez"
denied it in an interview with the CIA. Married former
girlfriend of Meneses lieutenant Marcos Aguado and is
reportedly living in Spain.
HULL, JOHN
—Indiana farmer who was CIA liaison to the
Contras in Costa Rica. Hull's ranch was reportedly the site
of numerous drug trans-shipments, an allegation he has
long denied. Hull worked closely with suspected drug
traffickers Marcos Aguado and Dagoberto Nunez on
Contra projects in Costa Rica. He was indicted in 1989 on
drug trafficking and murder charges there and fled the
country with the assistance of the Costa Rican DEA office.
The drug charges were later dropped, but he was
permanently forbidden reentry into Costa Rica. Hull is
currently living in Indiana.
NIEVES, ROBERT "THE SNOWMAN"
—Head of DEA
office in Costa Rica while Meneses and Dagoberto Nunez
were working as informants there. Meneses identified
Nieves as his control agent. While he was DEA attache in
Costa Rica, the DEA office was alleged by Costa Rican
officials to be involved in drug trafficking and protecting
cocaine labs in Contra war zones, charges that were never
proven. Nieves went on to become the head of all DEA
operations internationally and resigned in 1995. He works

===== PDF PAGE 853 =====
for Oliver North and Joe Fernandez in the security business
and is a frequently cited drug expert for network television
news.
NUÑEZ, DAGOBERTO
—Cuban Bay of Pigs veteran and
CIA-DEA operative suspected of cocaine trafficking in
Costa Rica. Worked closely with North's illegal Contra
resupply operation and helped U.S. government funnel
money to the Contras there. Helped John Hull escape from
Costa Rica. Reportedly runs a cellular telephone dealership
in San Jose, Costa Rica.
OWEN, ROBERT
—Former prep school counselor in Los
Angeles who became a key CIA operative in Costa Rica
for Oliver North and Joe Fernandez. Owen served as a go-
between, or "cutout," for the agency's dealings with the
Cuban-American drug dealers assisting the Contras on the
Southern Front. Intervened in the Kelso case and destroyed
alleged evidence of DEA involvement with cocaine
trafficking. Reportedly working as a teacher in Florida.
SEAL, BARRY
—Major drug trafficker in southern United
States in early 1980s. Became CIA-DEA operative in 1984
White House attempt to entrap Sandinista leaders in
cocaine bust. Reportedly flew weapons for the Contras and
returned to the States with cocaine. Murdered in New
Orleans in 1986 by Colombian hit men.
The Crack Dealers

===== PDF PAGE 854 =====
BROWN, LEROY "CHICO"
—Corner Pocket Crip and
major Compton crack dealer with the Patrick Johnson
organization. Became involved with Ricky Ross as a
business partner in early 1990s. Pleaded guilty to drug
charges in San Diego in 1996 and is serving an eleven-
year sentence.
NEWELL, OLLIE "BIG LOC"
—Ricky Ross's childhood
friend and partner in what would eventually become South
Central L.A.'s largest crack distribution network in the early
to mid-1980s. Convicted of drug charges in Indiana in late
1980s and released from prison in 1997. Now living in Los
Angeles.
ROSS, "FREEWAY" RICKY
—Leader of South Central's
first major crack distribution ring. In the space of four years
Ross went from selling fractions of an ounce to shipping
multimillion-dollar cocaine shipments across America.
Convicted of cocaine trafficking in 1996, he is currently
serving life without the possibility of parole.
The Meneses Organization
CORÑEJO, RAFAEL
—Distributor for Norwin Meneses in
San Francisco Bay Area since mid-1970s. His territory
stretched all the way to Portland, Oregon. Arrested,
tortured, and jailed by Manuel Noriega's men in 1977 while
he was smuggling cocaine through Panama for Norwin.
Convicted of income tax evasion in San Francisco in 1985.
Indicted and jailed for cocaine trafficking in 1992; convicted
and sentenced to thirty years in 1996.

===== PDF PAGE 855 =====
MENESES, EDMUNDO
—Former Nicaraguan
ambassador to Guatemala, former general in Nicaraguan
National Guard, former chief of police in Managua, all
before Somoza's fall. Norwin's brother and main protector.
Probable CIA asset. Graduate of U.S. Army School of the
Americas. Assassinated in Guatemala in 1978 by
guerrillas shortly before Somoza's overthrow.
MENESES, GUILLERMO
—Nephew of Norwin. Handled
cocaine distribution for Meneses family in Bay Area and
Los Angeles in the early 1990s. Targeted by FBI in Cornejo
investigation but never charged.
MENESES, JAIME
—Nephew of Norwin and son of Jaime
Meneses Sr. Involved in cocaine trafficking in San
Francisco Bay Area since late 1970s. Became a crack
addict in the late 1980s and dropped from view.
MENESES, JAIRO
—Nephew of Norwin and son of
Edmundo Meneses. Involved in cocaine trafficking in San
Francisco Bay Area since late 1970s. Arrested and jailed
in 1985. Reportedly rearrested on cocaine charges in the
early 1990s.
MENESES, NORWIN "EL PERICO"
—The King of Drugs.
Leader of the Meneses organization. Believed to have
been the Cali cartel's representative in Nicaragua. Drug

===== PDF PAGE 856 =====
trafficker since early 1970s. Lived in United States from
1979 to 1985. Close connections to Cuban anti-
Communist movement. Worked for the Contras as a
recruiter, arms supplier, and benefactor during the entire
war. Worked with DEA from 1985 to 1991. Indicted in the
States in 1989 on drug charges but never arrested.
Arrested and jailed in Nicaragua in 1991, sentenced to
twelve years in prison.
MIRANDA, ENRIQUE
—Former Sandinista intelligence
officer, CIA asset, DEA informant, and right-hand man to
Norwin Meneses from 1989 to 1991. Part of supersecret
Sandinista dirty-tricks unit inside the Interior Ministry.
Testified against Meneses in Nicaragua in 1992 and
reportedly targeted for death by the drug lord as a result.
Miranda "escaped" from prison in 1995 and was
recaptured in Miami in 1996, where he was kidnapped by
the FBI, allegedly for the escape, and put on a plane back
to Nicaragua.
PEREIRA, HORACIO
—Friend and business partner of
Norwin Meneses in prewar Nicaragua. Joined him in exile
in Costa Rica where he become one of Meneses's top
cocaine dealers there. Identified by FBI in 1982 as source
of cocaine for Frogman drug ring in San Francisco.
Conduit of drug funds from Meneses operation in Bay Area
to Contras in Costa Rica and Honduras. Convicted of
cocaine trafficking in Costa Rica in 1986 and escaped.
Meneses says he was murdered in Guatemala in the early
1990s.

===== PDF PAGE 857 =====
SÁNCHEZ, TROILO
—Brother of FDN officials Aristides
and Fernando Sanchez. Business partner of Meneses in
prewar Nicaragua and in Costa Rican exile during the
1980s. Flew for the CIA in Nicaragua in the 1960s.
Identified by FBI in 1982 as source of cocaine for Frogman
ring in San Francisco. Arrested on drug charges in Costa
Rica in mid-1980s but acquitted. Recovered drug addict.
Now lives in Nicaragua.
VIGIL, FRANK
—Former Nicaraguan advertising executive
and longtime business partner of Norwin Meneses in
prewar Managua and in Costa Rican exile. In the 1980s he
worked in Mexican political campaigns and was in
business with the Venezuelan government in Florida.
Suspected of selling cocaine for the Contras in Los
Angeles in early 1980s. Indicted by Nicaraguan
government in 1991 on cocaine charges with Meneses but
was acquitted. Now lives in Managua.
The Blandón Organization
BLANDÓN, DANILO "CHANCHIN"
—Head of multiton
cocaine distribution ring in Los Angeles from 1981 to 1991.
First major trafficker to make inroads into South Central
Los Angeles in early 1980s, providing the street gangs with
their first direct connection to the Colombian cocaine
cartels. Longtime supplier to Freeway Rick Ross. Worked
as part of Meneses organization, but struck out on his own
in 1985. Founded FDN chapter in Los Angeles. Arrested
and convicted of cocaine trafficking in 1992 and became
DEA informant. Now divides his time between San Diego

===== PDF PAGE 858 =====
and Managua.
BLANDÓN, CHEPITA
—Danilo Blandón's wife. Identified
by the DEA as being closely involved in the trafficking
activities of her husband. Arrested and jailed in 1992 but
charges were dropped when Danilo agreed to become a
DEA informant. Was made a naturalized United States
citizen as a result of his cooperation.
CORRALES, HENRY
—Cocaine distributor for Blandón in
Los Angeles in early 1980s. One of Freeway Ricky Ross's
first suppliers. Left the States in mid-1980s for Honduras.
Current whereabouts unknown.
GUERRA, SERGIO
—Mexican millionaire and owner of
lucrative parking lot on Mexican border near Tijuana.
Money launderer for Blandón in California and Florida.
Business partner with Blandón in several used car lots.
Convicted of money-laundering charges in early 1990s and
sentenced to jail. Deported to Mexico, where he is reported
to be living.
LISTER, RONALD JAY
—Ex-police detective who served
as a money launderer, security adviser, and mule for
Blandón in the mid-1980s. Involved in arms deals with the
Contras and security work for Salvadoran politicians and
Iranian exiles. Has worked as FBI, DEA, and local police
informant. Convicted of drug trafficking in late 1980s and
sent to prison. Released in 1996. Current whereabouts
unknown.

===== PDF PAGE 859 =====
MORENO, APARICIO
—Colombian supplier to both
Blandón and Meneses organizations during the Contra war.
Reported ties to the FDN and CIA. Implicated in drug
trafficking in Guatemala in 1988 in connection with top CIA
agent there. Current whereabouts unknown.
MURILLO, ORLANDO
—Chepita Blandón's uncle and
suspected money launderer for Blandón organization.
Economist who served on the board of Nicaragua's Central
Bank before the revolution and managed many of the
Somoza family businesses. Managua representative of
Swiss Bank Corp. and Citizens and Southern Bank before
the war. Became an investment banker in Florida while in
exile. Elected to the Nicaraguan Assembly in 1996 and
announced his resignation during an interview with the
author and Georg Hodel. Though long suspected by the
DEA of money laundering, he was never charged with a
crime in the United States.
TORRES, JACINTO AND EDGAR "THE TREES"
—
Longtime friends and sometime rivals of Blandón in the
cocaine business. Related by marriage to ex-Medellín
cartel boss Pablo Escobar. Jacinto was convicted of drug
charges in 1986. Both became DEA informants in early
1990s after conviction on cocaine charges.

===== PDF PAGE 860 =====
GLOSSARY OF ORGANIZATIONS AND
LOCATIONS
ARDE (Alizana Revolucionaria Democratica)
—Contra
faction based in Costa Rica and commanded by Eden
Pastora, a former Sandinista.
Bloods
—The smaller conglomeration of loosely affiliated
L.A. street gangs. Formed in the early 1970s from the
combination of the West Coast chapter of the Chicago-
based Black Peace Stone Rangers and the L.A.-based
Brim Blood Army and Pirus gangs. Blood colors are red.
Brigade 2506
—U.S.-based organization made up
primarily of Cuban veterans of the CIA-trained Bay of Pigs
invasion forces.
CIA (Central Intelligence Agency)
—The U.S.
government's primary intelligence-gatherers. Its covert
action side, the Directorate of Operations, has been the
chief culprit behind Agency scandals and outrages.
Crips
—The largest group of informally affiliated L.A. street
gangs. Started in the late 1960s. Like the Bloods, the Crips
are actually a loose confederation of smaller gangs, called
"sets," which generally take their names from streets in
their neighborhoods (ie. "Grape Street Crips," "Rollin'
Forties Crips.") Crip colors are blue.

===== PDF PAGE 861 =====
DEA (Drug Enforcement Administration)
—A branch of
the U.S. Department of Justice and the principal federal
agency responsible for the enforcement of anti-drug laws.
Successor to the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous
Drugs (BNDD).
DIA
 (Defense Intelligence Agency)—Formed in 1961 as
part of the Department of Defense. The primary intelligence
service of the U.S. military. The DIA was heavily involved in
Central America in the 1980s.
FDN (Fuerza Democratica Nicaragüense)
—Contra
faction created by the CIA, based in Honduras, and
commanded by Enrique Bermúdez, a former National
Guardsman. The FDN was the largest, most well-armed
and best-trained of all the Contra factions.
FMLN (Frente Farbundo Marti Liberacion Nacional)
—
Leftist revolutionary group based in El Salvador and
supported by the Sandinistas.
Frigorificos de Puntarenas
—Costa Rican shrimp fishery
set up by the Medellín cartel to launder drug money and
transport cocaine shipments. Later purchased by Cuban
anti-Communists and suspected drug traffickers and used
by Oliver North and the Contras to launder humanitarian aid
funds.

===== PDF PAGE 862 =====
Ilopango
—Airbase in El Salvador secretly used by the
Contras, the CIA, and Oliver North's "Enterprise" to funnel
weapons and supplies to the Contra units operating on the
Southern Front in Costa Rica. Both the CIA and DEA had
reports that Ilopango was used to transship cocaine.
LAPD
—Los Angeles Police Department.
Legion of September 15
—An early Contra group made
up primarily of ex-National Guardsmen. Based in
Guatemala where it committed crimes and political
kidnappings and assassinations. Commanded by Ricardo
(El Chino) Lau and Enrique Bermúdez, it later became the
core of the FDN.
M-3 (Movimiento Tercera Via)
—Tiny Contra splinter
group based in Costa Rica. Commanded by Sebastian
"Guachan" Gonzalez and staffed mainly with Cuban anti-
Communist mereenaries.
Majors
—The nickname of three elite detective units
formed by the Los Angeles County Sheriff's office in the
mid-1980s to combat major criminal organizations. Short
for Major Violators.
NHAO (Nicaraguan Humanitarian Aid Office)
—A State

===== PDF PAGE 863 =====
Department operation set up to distribute Congressionally
authorized humanitaran aid to the Contras.
NSC (National Security Council)
—Ostensibly, the
President's advisors on national security matters. Under the
Reagan Adminstration, it became an operational
intelligence agency based inside the White House.
Nicaraguan National Guard (La Guardia Nacional)
—
Anastasio Somoza's army, which also ran the national
police, state security and intelligence services, the postal
service, and customs agency.
OIJ (Organismo de Investigacion Judicial)
—Costa
Rican law enforcement agency similar in function to the FBI.
OSN (Oficina Seguridad Nacional)
—Anastasio
Somoza's secret police unit that monitored political
dissidents.
Sandinistas (FRS)
—Informal name of the Frente
Revolucionario de Sandino, the leftist revolutionary guerrilla
group that overthrew the U.S.-supported dictatorship of
Anastasio Somoza in 1979.
UDN-FARN (Union Democratica Nicaragüense—
Fuerzas Armadas Resistencia Nicaragüenses)
—Early
Contra faction based first in Honduras and then in Costa
Rica, commanded by the erratic former Sandinsta

===== PDF PAGE 864 =====
Fernando "El Negro" Chamorro. UDN-FARN first joined
forces with the FDN, left to link up with Pastora and ARDE,
then left Pastora and rejoined the FDN under the umbrella
group UNO.
UNO (United Nicaraguan Opposition)
—A later CIA-
inspired attempt to brush up the Contra's public image and
gather all Contra factions under one group. UNO existed
mostly as a fa_ade, as the FDN did the bulk of the fighting
and retained most of the authority.

===== PDF PAGE 865 =====
 
GARY WEBB
 (1955–2005) was an investigative reporter
for 21 years, focusing on government and private sector
corruption and winning more than 30 journalism awards. He
was one of six reporters at the 
San Jose Mercury News
 to
win a 1990 Pulitzer Prize for General News Reporting for
their Loma Prieta earthquake that devastated northern
California. He also received the 1997 Media Hero Award
from the Institute for Alternative Journalism and in 1996 was
named Journalist of the Year by the Bay Area Society of
Professional Journalists. Webb also served as a consultant
to the California State Legislature's Task Force on
Government Oversight and was a contributing feature writer
to 
Esquire
, most recently exposing the widespread police
policy of pulling over drivers for DWB (Driving While Black).
In 1998, 
Dark Alliance
 was a finalist for the PEN/Newman's
Own First Amendment Award. In 1999, it won the
Firecracker Alternative Book (FAB) Award in the "Politics"
category, and was a finalist for the Bay Area Book
Reviewers Award for nonfiction.
CONGRESSWOMAN MAXINE WATERS
 is currently
serving her ninth term representing California's South
Central Los Angeles district.

===== PDF PAGE 866 =====
Table of Contents
Foreword Congresswoman Maxine Waters
Acknowledgments
Author's Note
PART ONE
PROLOGUE
1 "A Pretty secret kind of thing"
2 "We were the first"
3 "The brotherhood of military minds"
4 "I never sent cash"
5 "God, Fatherland and Freedom"
6 "They were doing their patriotic duty"
7 "Something happened to Ivan"
8 "A million hits is not enough"
9 "He would have had me by the tail"
10 "Teach a man a craft and he's liable to practice it"
11 "They were looking in the other direction"
12 "This guy talks to God"
13 "The wrong kind of friends"
14 "It's bigger than I can handle"
15 "This thing is a tidal wave"
16 "It's a burn"
17 "We're going to blow your fucking head off"
18 "We bust our ass and the government's involved"
19 "He reports to people reporting to Bush"
20 "It is a sensitive matter"
21 "I could go anywhere in the world and sell dope"
22 "They can't touch us"
23 "He had the backing of a superpower"
24 "They're gonna forget I was a drug dealer"
PART TWO

===== PDF PAGE 867 =====
25 "Things are moving all arounds us"
26 "That matter, if true, would be classified"
27 "A very difficult decision"
EPILOGUE
NOTES ON SOURCES
CAST OF CHARACTERS
GLOSSARY OF ORGANIZATIONS AND LOCATIONS
