
===== PDF PAGE 1 =====
Sigma: Journal of Political and International Studies Sigma: Journal of Political and International Studies 
Volume 18 Article 8 
9-1-2000 
Political Policing: The United States and Latin America by Martha Political Policing: The United States and Latin America by Martha 
K. Huggins K. Huggins 
Kacey Widdison-Jones 
Follow this and additional works at: https://scholarsarchive.byu.edu/sigma 
Recommended Citation Recommended Citation 
Widdison-Jones, Kacey (2000) "Political Policing: The United States and Latin America by Martha K. 
Huggins," Sigma: Journal of Political and International Studies: Vol. 18 , Article 8. 
Available at: https://scholarsarchive.byu.edu/sigma/vol18/iss1/8 
This Book Review is brought to you for free and open access by the Journals at BYU ScholarsArchive. It has been 
accepted for inclusion in Sigma: Journal of Political and International Studies by an authorized editor of BYU 
ScholarsArchive. For more information, please contact scholarsarchive@byu.edu, ellen_amatangelo@byu.edu. 

===== PDF PAGE 2 =====
BoO!-.:: REVIE\'('S 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
p()UJJC 11- p()/JUW;: Tf-fl: USrrFJ) SF 111:.1 L\'[) L·IH\· _>t\ll~R.IC 1. 
Martha K. Huggins. Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 1998.248 pp. 
In the closing pages of Political Po!i(i1~~: T/)f 
Uilited Sfa/eJ alld J -elfin /jlJlfnCa, J\[artha Huggins 
uses the analogy of a "protection racket" to 
illustrate the role of social control in the creation 
of new states. Essentially, in the creation of a 
protection racket, a government, "by provid­
ing protection from violence ... builds up its 
capacity for control and hegemony" (199). 
Through this analog\", Huggins proposes that the 
United States's attempt to save Latin America from 
the threat of communism contributed to the crea­
tion of authoritarian regimes that pursued social 
control by exterminating personal liberties. Herein 
lies the great irony of US. intervention: as the 
United States sought to protect its hemisphere 
from the evils of imported communism, it fos­
tered the creation of authoritarianism, a form of 
government ill-suited to promote the fundamental 
American values of life, liberty, and freedom. 
Huggins is clear in her analysis of US. motives 
in Latin America: the United States needed absolute 
assurance that the dreaded "domino effect" of 
communism would not occur in its own backyard. 
To gain this absolute assurance, the U.S. intlltrated 
internal security systems of those Latin American 
countries most at risk of embracing communism. 
Through training foreign civilian police, the United 
54· SIGMA 
States established a network of loyal and trusted 
contacts within Latin American governments who 
allowed the US. access to sensitive information, 
information which permitted the C.S, to monitor 
communist and other subversi\'e activities. The 
surface motive was to promote criminal justice 
in Latin American governments. However, as 
e\'idenced by intervention programs in Guatemala, 
Bolivia, Chile, and most notably Brazil, U.S. train­
ing of civilian police forces had the consequence, 
whether intended or unintended, of further 
suppressing human rights. An abundance of 
information contlrms that U.S. training taught 
Latin American police methods of torture, riot 
control, and public execution. Though difficult to 
pinpoint Huggins's overarching thesis, her series of 
micro-theses illustrate how U.S. assistance to Latin 
American police helped centralize Latin American 
internal security forces and make them more 
militarized, authoritarian, and subversive. 
Throughout her book, Huggins uses a SOCK}­
logical approach to present her information con­
cerning political policing. Biased by her discipline, 
Huggins seeks primarily to describe how l'.S. 
political policing affected the "sociolog\' of 
policing" in Latin America (ix). Huggins seeks to 
re-create for the reader the culture of fear 


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====
experienced by oppressed Brazilian citizens. llsing 
personal accounts of both victims and prosecu­
tors, particularly in the final chapters of her book, 
Huggins shows how ll.S. training centralized, 
professionalized, and politicized the Brazilian 
police, which in turn demoralized members of 
Brazilian society. Huggins clearly shows how the 
l.'nited States silently watched as Brazilians lost 
their freedom of speech, freedom of the press, 
and freedom from arbitran' detention. Huggins's 
use of specific detail gives a unique perspective, 
especialh' concerning how comic strip writers and 
fashion designers responded to this oppression. j\t 
the same time, Huggins's use of detail also shows 
that her anah'sis primarih' focuses upon the social 
rather than the political or economic effects 
of political policing. I t is evident that the study of 
police oppression drives Huggins, shown lw 
her in-depth anah'sis and research throughout her 
book. ""Ioreover, it is apparent that Huggins carries 
an emotional attachment to her subject. This 
attachment may have biased Huggins, causing 
her to exclude positive information concerning 
C.S. foreign police training, as well as negati,'e FS. 
responses to police oppression of the ci"ilian 
population. 
Despite Huggins's personal biases, her sources 
are outstanding. In the preface, Huggins admits 
the inherent diftlculties of her research, primarily 
in uncovering proof of U.S. actions recorded in 
covert documents. Because of these difficulties, 
past scholars have done little reasearch, leaving 
Huggins \I.'ith very little to draw from. Therefore, 
reh'ing almost completely on primar\" data, 
Huggins searched government documents, includ­
ing congressional hearings, FBI contact informa­
tion, and, most importantly, information from the 
infamous Office of Public Safety (OPS). To her 
credit, in the face of much diftlculty Huggins 
was able to conduct personal interviews with 
twentl.'-seven former members of Brazilian police 
forces. Such first-hand information from those 
im'oh'ed in police actions is extremely convincing, 
though emotionally charged. 
Because Huggins's research appears to be 
groundbreaking, this book could easily become an 
essential text for those studying political policing 
in Latin America. \X'hile this book is signitlcant for 
those studying U.S.-Latin America relations, this 
A. SCOTT FLEMING / I~ACEY WIDDISON-j ()~ES 
information could also be useful for political 
scientists and sociologists. Huggins's greatest 
strength is the quality of her research: she certainly 
provides adequate evidence to support her thesis. 
At the same time, however, Huggins fails to 
remain focused, adding information that docs not 
tie into her central thesis. In her discussion of 
intelligence-gathering information organizations, 
for example, Huggins has a great deal of breadth, 
but at times insufficient depth. Rather than 
including scattered information on less-signitlcant 
internal security programs, Huggins's research 
could be strengthened by additional analysis of the 
most important organizations, such as the OPS. 
\'{'hat could Huggins's research mean for the 
future of FS.-Latin American relations? Perhaps 
Huggins's most signitlcant achieyement is expos­
ing information about the depth of US. inYoh'e­
ment in what some would see as a non heroic and 
immoral mission. Huggins's research details an 
unfavorable ,'iew of U.S. world motiYes. Thus, the 
greatest impact of her research is that it decreases 
trust in the C.S. government-from j\merican 
citizens who were protected from such "sensitive" 
informatiun, and from Latin Americans who 
suspected, but perhaps did not fulh' belieye, that 
the Cnited States was capable of permitting such 
grave yiolations of fundamental human rights. 
-I"":.\CFY WIDD1S( )"'-j ()"'ES 
SIGMA· 55 

