
===== PDF PAGE 1 =====
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 ws prv 
SENATE J Report 
| No. 94-755 
94TH CONGRESS 
2d Session 
FOREIGN AND MILITARY 
INTELLIGENCE 
iy fee BOOK I 
FINAL REPORT 
OF THE 
SELECT COMMITTEE 
TO STUDY GOVERNMENTAL OPERATIONS fo iB 
WITH RESPECT TO 
INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES 
UNITED STATES SENATE 
TOGETHER WITH 
ADDITIONAL, SUPPLEMENTAL, AND SEPARATE 
VIEWS 
APRIL 26 (legislative day, APRIL 14), 1976 
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 
WASHINGTON : 1976 
For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office 
Washington, D.C. 20402 - Price $5.35 
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 |e 


===== PDF PAGE 2 =====
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 
A XVI. DISCLOSURE OF BUD‘ 
Rane ge TELLIGENCE COM: B. Congressional Oversight... LIII 149 A. The Present Budget: Ix Sao and Conclusions.._.....__......--...-..2 152 Agencies and Its C! . en RIN TELLIGENCE Sle hae oh E ee i beret oak ZII 163 B. The Constitutional F: : - Counterintelligence: An Introduction.....__.-..__.....7 163 C. Alternatives to Conce: | a cent Sues in Counterintelligence..__.._.___._....._. 171 Ba ee ee - Conclusions........__._.._ 5 e ec pon N, TRSTIC TUBIS ART WA tre cc tee eee 177 : | X. THE DOMESTIC IMPACT OF FOREIGN CLANDESTIN Budget Disclosure. | OPERATIONS: THE CIA AND ACADEMIC INSTITUTIONS. E. The Argument that | THE MEDIA, AND RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS.. 179 Inevitably Result i i A. Covert Use of Academic and Voluntary Organizations... I 181 F. The Argument that ' B. Covert Relationships with the United States Media...” 191 _ Information on Ite Government in the ENE ane ee ae ee 205 G. Summary and Conchi ANOVEWVeWicccten sua ok ot ee Caterers Bon XVII. TESTING AND USE Ci TRSN a Teat a Lo cit aki ts dae ay ee ee 207 AGENTS BY THE IN C. Operation of Proprietaries___. 2.222202 221. 27 234 A. The Programs Invest: D. The Disposal of Proprietaries_....-._____....) 236 —B. CIA Drug Testing Pi: ee E. Financial Aspects_._........ II 247 C. Covert Testing on H’ >- F. Some General Considerations... TII 251 Groups----------- ; XII. CIA PRODUCTION OF FINISHED INTELLIGENCE. 2777777 237 D. Gooperation and Con! A. Evolution of the CIA’s Intelligence Directorate... 239 cies, and Between `: B. The Intelligence Directorate Today... LIII 265 ` Institutions___..-- ; C. The Relationship Between Intelligence and Policy.__._____ 266 XVIII. SUMMARY: FINDING: D. The Limits of Intelligence_......2---.--. CLIII 268 A. Introduction_______. z phe Personnel System._..____-._ 2. ---- soso 269 B. General Findings- fs <- Recruitment and Training of Analysts- ITIITI 270 C. The 1947 National & G. The Intelligence Culture and Analytical Bias... 270 D. The National Securit: H. ee of the Production Process: Consensus Versus E ahe a tigi, IRON saie kd hs Le eda i i I. The “Current Events” Syndrome.. IIIZ H G. Reorganization of the J. AMMOVAUON aint ache Cusine ee 273 H. CIA Relations with 
r aum analysts and Consumers_.___._ 222222228 274 I e E and Go - Quality Control- a -22000 I 7 . an i i é M. Consumer Guidance and Evaluation.......-.._._.....___. ae J. Intelligence Liaison_- i . HY: The Congressional Role______........._._.. 00077 277 K. The General Counsel XUL T TE CIA's INTERNAL CONTROLS: JHE INSPECTOR GEN- ee Desens on ~ 1 D JENERAL COU . e A ae ene Counsel___.--- 22.2 C > D rie N. Oversight and the In: . e Office of the Inspector General.. D IIUI 289 O. Chemical and Biolog r C. Puen) an External Review of the Office of the Inspector P aa Myre er í eneral- ga atse . ; XIV. THE DEPARTMENT OF STATELID11111777777777tt77-=4-- an APPENDIX T: Congressional At i A. Origins of the State Department Intelligence Function._.... 305 Agency to conduct Govert Act: E yommand and Control- a-oa- a ooo aaa LL 308 . The National Securit, i ` Support Communications.. 22a I 315 B. The CIA Act of 1949 i xv p „D. Production of Intelligence_._____-..... 1-2. 77 315 C. The Provision of Fun EPARTMENT QOF DEFENSE cedran eana coins RER 319 D. The Holtzman and A A oy and Organization of the Defense Intelligence Com- F gne oghes Ryan A TUT osc ered E es tae Ba he 3 nclusion...._..__. B. The Defense Intelligence Budget. a222 L war cee ano APPENDIX II: Additional Cove C. E Problems of the Defense Intelligence Com- 7 oe of Cyc d 
D. Agencies and Activities of Special Interet [IILI 34 C. Statement of David . E ena. Counterintelligence and Investigative Agencies.____ 355 D. Prepared Statement - Chemical and Biological Activities- -22.1 2.O C S----- 359 E. Recommendations o! G. Meeting Future Needs in Defense Intelligence. nannan 363 F pecite, Study ax s ecommendations o | gence Concerning L i G. Article from Foreign | Secret Operations: i H. Article from Saturday ë with the CIA?____ 
I. Recommendations of 
the Government fc i Murphy Commissic 
0732 R000700070024-8 say Aopioved -RDP92M0 
Aniete Bila tt 
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA 


===== PDF PAGE 3 =====
~ Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 px 
219 
ation had invested more than $30,000 
organization and re- December 31, 1974, this corpor 
x is needed. in a certificate of deposit.” An investment proprietary, which was later 
of project funds or dissolved, had invested about $100,000 in Mexico as of March 31, 1973. 
of CCS has told the A Delaware corporation, which has provided secure air support for 
abuse are (1) com- Agency employees and classified pouches between Headquarters and 
t CCS; and (3) dis- other Agency facilities in the United States, has nearly $150,000 in- 
al committees.” vested in a certificate of deposit. 
utlined by. the CCS A former youth activity proprietary, in which the Agency no 
longer retains an interest, had approximately $50.000 invested in time 
have the list of deposits as of March 31. 1972. Another proprietary is part of a com- 
people, and if I plex managed by the Cover and Commercial Staff which provides 
any of the com- operational support. for foreign operations. Tt is a Delaware cor- 
ı couple of times poration used to collect proceeds from the sale of Agency proprietary 
z which I knew entities and to refund such proceeds to the Agency. Its total assets 
were nearly three-quarters of a million dollars and its total stock- 
ard no, this in- 
1 $ holders equity was in excess of $15,000 as of December 31. 1973. It 
c. And if we had 
À K 
hat indicated a has no employees. As of December 31, 1974, it had invested almost 
or wouldn’t buy half a million dollars in a convertible subordinated debenture from 
the sale of a company and almost $50,000 in notes receivable. _ 
Haier inm someon Another company in this complex is a foreign company which has 
ihe bee hat orm been used as an investment vehicle for funds earmarked for new com- 
of funds for ka mercial operations requiring Agency investments. This investment 
nongovernment lat project has been terminated and all funds were returned to the Agency. 
oE investment by l | The company has no employees. As of December 31, 1973, it had in- 
ders that its f Ying ' vested nearly a quarter of a million dollars in a Security Note of a 
ee private domestic corporation. 
anmenn S “4 A proprietary which was part of the air support complex had in- 
1, 197h.—Th CEUTUY ' vested over $200,000 in a certificate of deposit as of December 31, 1974. 
nts in both de SAN l This entity was later sold. Another is part of the management and 
Ba : oer 1c accounting complex. As of December 31, 1974, it had nearly half a 
; the gamut of notes, million dollars invested in time deposits. 
have also used this 
‘al and insuring ade- The Air Proprietaries 
History —Lawrence R. Houston. fomrer CIA General Counsel, 
general merchandise was involved in the establishment of the first set of Agency proprie- 
1 States Government. taries, and has concluded that they should be a mechanism of last 
ce of Logistics. resort. Houston maintains that the Agency learned this “the hard 
ial business and only way and almost all of the lessons involved probably came out one way 
nvested over $100.000 or the other in connection with a major aviation proprietary in the 
purchases arms, am- Far East. Others had their own special problems, but I think the Air 
‘ice of Logistics. This America complex had pretty near everything.” ** 
Teadquarters officials The Agency acquired Air America in 1949 ostensibly to deny the 
ation had invested assets of this company to the Communist Chirese. The CIA first. ar- 
ranged cash advances to the company in 1949. These advances were 
d to an Agency em- eventually credited to the Agency’s purchase of the corporation. At 
‘oyee had ostensibly that time, Houston described the airline as follows: 
7 the Agency. As of ; This normal aviation organization. this would have no mean- 
ing at all, was completely at all, it would have no standing 
2 The Agency today uses this firm for the purchase af airline tickets for travel 
in sunport of sensitive projects. It is estimated by the Agency that CIA business 
irline ticket sales of the entity on an the administrative plan 
:¢ divesture of American represents about 30 percent of the gross & 
annual basis. 
™ Houston, 1/15/76, p. 5. 
a 
ified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 


===== PDF PAGE 4 =====
ified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 
220 
in international law, aviation rights, or any of that. But it 
worked for what they wanted, which was to take supplies up- 
country into inland China and then to bring back whatever 
cargo they could get commercially : tallow, hides, bristles, all 
that sort of trade, and then they traded that off for their own 
account. And for awhile the operation was fairly successful, 
the C-47’s and C-46’s.5> ` 
To finance this activity the lawyer for the airline organized a com- 
pany, Civil Air Transport, which was funded by a Panamanian cor- 
poration. The two owners of Air America approached the Agency in connection with a foreign operation in the spring of 1959, and in- dicated that unless they received financial assistance, the airline would 
go out of business. 
A series of meetings were held subsequently in which it was deter- 
mined that the Agency needed to contract. for air transport in-some of 
its operations, particularly those involving arms and ammunition. 
And so we entered into an arrangement, I think in about Sep- 
tember of 1949 whereby we would advance them, the figure of 
$750,000 sticks in my mind, against which we could draw for 
actual use of the planes at an agreed on rate. ... And we did 
draw down. I think, all the flying time and expended the 
$750,000 between September and about January, at which 
time we suspended any further payments or draw-downs. 
I think the money was exhausted.?¢ 
The owners came to Washington in early 1950 for a series of discus- 
sions with the CIA. As a result of these negotiations, the Agency agreed 
to advance more funds, and received an option to purchase the assets 
of Civil Air Transport. Any unused portion of the advances was to 
be credited toward the purchase price. Air.America operated under 
this arrangement until the owners “came in in the summer of 1950 
and said again they were in desperate straits for funds.” 27 An- 
other series of meetings was held at the Agency in which it was con- 
cluded that the operations in the Far East would have a continuing 
need for secure airlift. There was also a general estimate that the loss 
of this airlift to the Chinese Communists would substantially assist 
them. Thus “the Agency then made the decision that they would ex- 
ercise the option given there was no objection otherwise.” 28 
The Agency felt that it was necessary to obtain approval from the 
Department of State, so the head of the CIA’s Office of Policy Coordi- 
nation (who was responsible for conduct of covert actions) and Mr. 
Houston visited the Assistant Secretary of State for the Far East: 
He and I went to see [the Assistant Secretary] and explained 
the situation. And [he] reminded us that it was basic U.S. 
policy not to get the government in competition with U.S. 
private industry. But under the particular circumstances, in 
particular as there was really no U.S. private industry in- 
= Ibid., p. 6. 
* Ibid., pp. 7-8. 
7 Ibid., p. 8. 
= Ibid., p. 9. 
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 


===== PDF PAGE 5 =====
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 Se aaa 
221 
volved in the area. and they agreed it was important to deny 
the assets to the Red Chinese. State would go along on the 
understanding that. we would divest ourselves of the private 
enterprise as soon as such a divestment was feasible, and 
all of the circumstances that might obtain.” 
The divestiture of these air proprietaries was not initiated until 
1975. and some of the entities have not yet been fully divested. Mr. 
Houston noted, however, that: 
We did not disregard that guidance because after very con- 
siderable use of this asset during the early ’50’s, there was a 
question of whether to continue it, and the matter was taken 
up in the National Security Council. And Allen Dulles, as 
Director, proposed that we continue the ownership and con- 
trol of the assets of Air America, as it then was known inelud- 
ing the subsidy as needed. And there was a subsidy at that 
time. . . . It was about $1,200,000 per year." 
The National Security Council considered whether this asset should 
be retained in 1956 and, on Dulles’ recommendation. decided to con- 
tinue the subsidy to Air America. 
The air proprietary’s business consisted almost entirely of Agency 
cargo carriage under contracts carrying military designations. The 
company was not organized, according to Houston, to fly common 
carriage and had no status in the international air business. The evi- 
dence indicates that during the early 1950s, there were two internal 
struggles: one was where control should lie in the Agency, and the 
ete was what policies should apply to the operation of the company 
itself: 
The struggle within the Agency ranged all the way from 
sort of quiet management discussions as to what was good 
management, to sometimes rather vociferous arguments of 
who’s in charge here. And the operators always said, “Well, 
we need to call the shots because it’s our operation. . . . And 
this is what we were running into all the time, of red hot 
operators opposed to what we would consider good man- 
agement." 
The air proprietary was managed by elements of the Office of Policy 
Coordination. From the very outset there were problems in this man- 
agement structure. One such example is the acquisition of Air Amer- 
ica in Aucust 1950. Houston was participating in the negotiations at 
the invitation of the Head of the Office of Policy Coordination. 
OPC was a curious organization, determined as being 
attached to the Agency for quarters and rationing with policy 
2 Thid., pp. 9-10. 
® Thid., p. 10. 
Houston indicated that there had been a subsidy running to the entities since 
1949. “$1.2 million represented about the maximum subsidy given until. I believe. 
about 1958 was the turning point. and from 1958 on, there was no subsidy as such 
that went into it.” The reason for that, of course, was that the air complex had 
become “money-making.” 
= Ibid., pp. 12-13. 
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 


===== PDF PAGE 6 =====
7 
a wn ee 
€ Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 
222 
guidance from State, which was an impossible situation. Very nice fellows were doing the negotiating with [OPC] ... quite unknown to me, when they made the agree- ment. to purchase carrying out the option, they gave the vendors the right to repurchase at any time within two years. And I thought this was really inconsistent with our whole position. And during the next two years they negotiated out that repurchase agreement and in its place substituted an agreement to give them a first refusal, if we were to dispose of the airline. That first refusal plagued us for years. They used to make all sorts of extraordinary claims under it and it was never exercised and eventually it was sort of forgotten when [the owners] died. It ran to them personally, whether it ran to them and two others personally, and they all are dead now. But this shows a part of the learning curve, which was the thing we were going through.*? 
In the summer of 1954. Houston and a consultant traveled to the Far East to observe the operation. The consultant went “specifically to look at the organization of the airline.” At the time of the airline’s purchase, the Agency had formed a Delaware corporation to buy it. The corporate counsel and the consultant were both verv concerned about the technical organization, or lack of it, in the operation. Accord- ing to Houston, they demonstrated : 
to my satisfaction that it was an absolute situation and that no one out there had the slightest understanding of the problem or what they were up against. or wanted to do any- thing about it [in terms of airline management ].33 
Following this review, a new organization. designed to be more responsive to the Operations Directorate. was created. Pacific Corporation held title to 40 percent of the equity in Air America, while the remainder was ostensibly owned by Chinese, who gave deeds of trust to the Agency for their shares. For purposes of international law this overt arrangement demonstrated that the com- pany was majority-owned and controlled by Chinese. Air America originally had several DC_4's and began modest opera- tions between Hong Kong, Taipei and Tokyo. The corporation soon acquired DC-6’s, and it was at this time that the question of competi- tion with private corporations first arose. Northwest Orient Airlines was then flying to Tokyo. Seoul. and Manila. A Northwest executive had noted the Agency's interest in this area when he was Chairman of the Civil Aeronautics Board in the late 1940s and early 1950s. Houston told the Committee: 
He became head of Northwest, a very tight manager. a very capable fellow. and he used to complain that we were inter- ferring, we were taking passengers off his airline, and we would go to him and say, we have to keep the airline in this business because the Chinese say they need an international airline. They’re not ready to start their own yet. And it is 
= Ibid., pp 13-14. 
* Ibid., p. 17. 
-Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 


===== PDF PAGE 7 =====
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 
223 
necessary to its overall cover status as a going commercial 
concern.*4 
By 1959 the executive had decided to ask the Civil Aeronautics Board for a decision. A meeting was held with the entire Board, where the executive maintained “that he was a private industry, he should not be interferred with by government competition.” 3 The Agency explained its situation, the need for cover, and their efforts to restrict carriage to the minimum necessary to retain their cover. 
And it ended up by one of the members of the Board turning to [the executive] and saying, “You ought to be glad that you don’t have a really good, reliable competitor in there.” 
He said, “If you were being competed with by private busi- ness, you’d have real headaches. You ought to be real glad 
that it’s not worse than it is.” 38 
In these proceedings, Houston conceded that some passengers were traveling on CIA aircraft rather than Northwest planes, but main- tained that the impact was minimal and unavoidable. The CAB par- ticipated in discussions with both the Agency and Northwest. After hearing both sides, the CAB “came down on the side of the Agency 
after making a reasoned judgment.” 37 
By 1960 the airline’s international commercial business was not mak- ing money. Maintenance work in Taiwan, however, was “normally a money-maker, and this was [contracted] primarily, although not exclusively, with the U.S. Air Force.” 38 
There were management problems in the maintenance operation, which originally stemmed from the fact that field personnel were not particularly astute in setting costs for their contracts. Houston cited one instance when the Agency consultant replaced a corporation comp- troller who was very able, but “had his own ideas of bookkeeping and controls.” The consultant insisted that the corporation implement bookkeeping practices and controls consistent with CAB and FAA regulations. The military maintenance contracts were constantly 
audited by on-site teams.*° 
In the early 1960s, the CIA received an exemption from the Con- tract Renegotiation Board on the grounds that renegotiation personnel might recognize that Air America was not a commercial operation and discover that the CIA was involved. The Agency went to the head of the Contract Renegotiation Board with a letter from the Depart- ment of Defense requesting an exemption on what it considered “per- fectly legitimate grounds.” + There was indeed a basis for exemption under the Renegotiation Act as the business was conducted entirely overseas, and the exemption was granted. The Agency was concerned that it had made a type of profit (over 40 percent on the Air Force maintenance contracts), which may well have been the subject of rene- 
* Ibid.. p. 21. 
8 Thid., p. 22. 
% Ibid. pp. 22-23. 
* Thid., p. 24. 
8 Toid., p. 25. 
*® Thid., p. 26. 
© Thid. 
| Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 


===== PDF PAGE 8 =====
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy 
3 Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 
224 
gotiation, had it not been subject to the exemption. “So the question was what to do about it. And finally, we made a voluntary repayment against part of the profit on that contract to the Air Force.” #1 s noted previously, the commercial airline aspect of the operation operated mostly at a loss. While there were periods when Air America cargo carriers were very busy on CIA contracts, the Korean War, Diem Bien Phu, and other paramilitary operations; there were also periods between these activities when there was nothing for the air- lines to do. During these periods of inactivity, the airline was stil] saddled with expenses such as crews’ salaries and the maintenance of grounded aircraft. To alleviate this problem, 
. we finally organized the stand-by contract, which was an apparent military entity on Okinawa. It was our entity, but it had a military designation. I can’t remember the name for it. And that entity contracted with Air America. for so many hours of cargo stand-by to be available any time on call, and that they would pay so much for that capability being main- tained . . . so that is how we kept the subsidy going to main- tain them during periods when there was not profitable flying.*? 
Another area of concern was the proprietary’s relationship with the Internal Revenue Service. From the outset, the company’s manage- ment was informed that they would be required to pay appropriate taxes. While there were the usual arguments about whether certain items were appropriate for taxation and whether certain deductions should have been granted, the relationship maintained with the IRS was basically a normal one. 
Houston recalled that in the mid-1950s Air America received notice of an upcoming audit by the IRS. Company officials came to the Agency and indicated that this might pose a security problem. The CIA went to the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service and indicated that they wished to have the audit conducted by an IRS team on an unwitting basis to see what they could learn. “We thought it would be a good test of the security of our arrangements.” 43 Later, the IRS personnel would be notified that they had begun to audit an Agency proprietary, and the audit would be discontinued : : They put a very bright young fellow on and he went into it. Thev came up with discrepancies and things that would be settled in the normal tax argument, corporate-IRS argu- ment, and all of these were worked eventually, and then we went to this fellow and said. “Now, this was owned and backed by the CIA, the U.S. Government. What was your guess as to what was hanpening?” 
And he said, “Well, I knew there was something there. and I thought, what a wonderful asset it would be for the Rus- sians to have. bnt I came to the conclusion that it was Rocke- feller money.” * 
* Thid., p. 27. 
© Ihid., p. 29. 
Ibid., p. 30. 
“Ibid. 
R ESPEN EET Bee eS 
Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 
eee Fee 


===== PDF PAGE 9 =====
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 
225 
As the operations of Air America developed, problems arose in- 
volving large cargo carriers. In the early days of its operation the 
airline used C-54’s, which had an extremely limited range, but were 
able to perform under demanding circumstances. Discussions pro- 
ceeded during that period about modernizing the equipment and the 
Agency, through Air America, bought DC-6AB’s. These aircraft were 
a conversion of the DC-6 with large cargo doors installed. Air 
America did not maintain any jet equipment at that point. 
In the early 1950’s Air America became deeply involved in a mili- 
tary Air Transport System. This system was originally known as 
MATS, and later as MAC. 
They got MATS contracts, and Air America got these, and 
these were very good to keep a constant utilization at a good 
rate, the MATS rates were usually good, because the policy 
was not to do competitive bidding for the lowest bidder be- 
cause then you got the poorest service, but give good rates to 
the carriers, and then require the carrier belong to the Civil 
Reserve Air Fleet. 
In 1956 MATS changed its policy and required that bidders on their 
contracts be certified. Because Air America could not become certif- 
icated, the Agency decided to purchase Southern Air Transport. 
While this corporation was technically a separate entity, not involved 
with Air America, it was actually an integral part of the complex 
from a management perspective. All management decisions for South- 
ern Air Transport were made by the same CIA consultant and ad- 
visory team that established Air America policy. 
Eventually, MAC decided to require that bidders not only be certif- 
icated, but that they also have equipment qualified for the Civil 
Reserve Air Fleet, i.e., jet aircraft. As a result, the Agency acquired 
Boeing 7277's and convinced Boeing to modify the 727 by enlarging the 
ventral exit, enhancing its airdrop capability. 
So the theory was that the 727’s would be used on MAC con- 
tracts to be available on an overriding basis if needed for 
major national security operation. Thev were used. usu- 
allv when thev had spare time. To my recollection, they were 
only called off once, off the actual contract time, and this was 
for a possible use which didn’t go through. But the White 
House asked if we had the canabilitv to move something from 
here to there, I think from the Philippines to somewhere 
in Southeast Asia. I don’t recall. and so thev sent word to 
management that thev wanted a nlane available at the earliest 
onnortunity at Clark Field. Thev pulled one of them off the 
MAC contract and had it available. I think ready to go, in | 
twelve hours. all set for the oneration. And the operation 
was never called. But it showed what the canabilitv was. And 
what thev had to do was get substitute service for the MAC 
contract.*® 
During the late 1960s several Chinese airlines besan operations on 
a limited scale. With the establishment of these indigenous airlines 
& Thid.. 38. 
* Thid., p. 39. 
se a mas me Tee 
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 


===== PDF PAGE 10 =====
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy 
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 
eT ee 
Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 
226 
flying Far East routes, the CIA considered reducing its international carriage work. The Agency decided to retain the MAC contracts be- cause they did not compete with the native enterprises, but plans to reduce Air America’s international common carriage were initiated. Another CIA proprietary, Civil Air Transport Company, Ltd.. which had been organized in 1954, had been the first Agency entity to engage in common carriage. Later, Air America did the American contracting, followed by Southern Air Transport which also per- formed MAC and MATS contracts with planes leased from Air America." 
a utor noted that in the late 1960s an internal decision was made that: 
. . - we probably couldn’t justify this major airlift. with the big jets, and so we started getting rid of them. See, they had no utilization to speak of down in Southeast Asia. A couple 
of supply flights went into [another area] and I think we used 
prop planes for that, to my recollection.‘ 
So the Agency began to phase out the 727s, which contributed to the decision to divest itself of Southern Air Transport and Air America. Internal management was streamlined in 1963 by the establishment 
of an executive committee consisting of the boards of directors of the Pacific Company, Air America and Air Asia. The overt board of 
directors in New York City passed a resolution organizing an overt executive committee. which consisted of the CIA consultant and two other directors. Covertly, the Agency added its own representa- tives to this committee, which allowed representatives of manage- 
ment, Agency and the operators to meet, consider policies, and give 
guidance to the company. Houston indicated that this mechanism 
was extremely effective in controlling the company: 
So I think for the last, oh, fifteen, eighteen years, the pro- 
prietary management system was on the whole pretty effec- 
tive from the Agency point of view. I think we knew what 
was going on. I think we were able to get things up for de- 
cisions, and if we couldn’t resolve them at the staff level, 
we would take them up to the Director for decisions; quite 
different from the early days in the early 50’s that I de- 
scribed, and the operators at least made the claim that they 
had the right to call the tune.*® 
During this period of time Operations Directorate personnel 
were getting themselves involved in the acquisition of air- 
craft and which were getting awfully damned expensive at 
this time, and separate projects were going after some of this 
expensive equipment without consideration of what might 
be available elsewhere to the Agency by contract or old air- 
craft. And so the Director of Central Intelligence set up 
EXCOMAYTIR, of which I was Chairman, and had repre- 
sentation from both the operation and management and fi- 
“SAT actually owned one 727 and leased two from Air America. 
“a Thid., p. 42. 
“ Ibid., pp. 46-47. 
hy ega eee ae a a aiie 
ee pe i e y 


===== PDF PAGE 11 =====
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 
227 
nance out of the Agency, to try and coordinate the overall 
control and acquisition and disposition of aircraft. 
A February 5, 1963 memorandum entitled “Establishment of Execu- 
tive Committee for Air Proprietary Operations,” noted that the com- 
mittee was “to provide general policy guidance for the management of 
air proprietary projects, and review and final recommendations for 
approval of air proprietary proiect actions.” Houston indicated that 
this. committee, dubbed EXCOMAIR, “was... an amorphous 
oup” which worked on a very informal basis. He indicated that 
EXCOMAIR was an effective method of achieving overall coordina- 
tion; it was responsible for conducting a thorough inventory of all the 
equipment that the Agency had in the aviation field and was generally 
able to keep track of who needed what. 
According to Houston, a general shift in thinking at the Agency 
occurred between 1968 and 1972 as to the desirability of maintaining 
a substantial airlift capability. The records appear to indicate that 
Houston convinced the Director in the early 1970s that such a capacity 
was no longer necessary to retain. Houston commented on this.assess- 
ment as follows: 
Through what knowledge I had of the utilization of the vari- 
ous assets, it seemed to me that utilization, particularly 
of large assets, that is, heavy flight equipment, was going 
down to the point where there was very little of it. Con- 
sequently, we couldnt forecast a specific requirement. Such 
requirements as you could forecast were highly contingent. 
But I also remember a couple of times putting the caveat mto 
the Director that with a changing world and with the com- 
plications in the aviation field, once you liquidate it, you could 
not rebuild, and so you ought to think very, very carefully 
before getting rid of an asset that did have a contingent 
capability. 
Allegation of Drug Trafficking —Persistent questions have been 
raised whether Agency policy has included using proprietaries to 
engage in illegal activities or to make profits which could be used to 
fund operations. Most notably, these charges included allegations that 
the CIA used air proprietaries to engage in drug trafficking. The 
Committee investigated this area to determine whether there is any 
evidence to substantiate these charges. On the basis of its examination, 
the Committee has concluded that the CIA air proprietaries did not 
participate in illicit drug trafficking. 7 
As allegations of illegal drug trafficking by Air America personnel 
grew in the spring and summer of 1972, the CIA launched a full- 
scale inquiry. The Inspector General interviewed a score of officers at 
CIA headquarters who had served in Asia and were familiar with the 
_ problems related to drug trafficking. After this initial step, the Office 
of the Inspector General dispatched investigators to the field. From 
August 24 to September 10, 1972, this group travelled the Far East 
® Thid., p. 51. © Thid., p. 52. & Ibid., p. 57. 
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA- RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 


===== PDF PAGE 12 =====
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 
228 
in search of the facts. They first visited Hong Kong, then eleven Agency facilities in Southeast Asia. During this period they inter- viewed more than 100 representatives of the CIA, the Department of State, the Agency for International Development, the Bureau of Nar- cotics and Dangerous Drugs, the U.S. Customs Service, the Army, Air America, and a cooperating air transport company. This inspection culminated in an Inspector General’s report in Sep- tember 1972, which concluded that there was 
no evidence that the Agency, or any senior officer of the Agency, has ever sanctioned or supported drug trafficking as a matter of policy. Also, we found not the slightest suspi- cion, much less evidence, that any Agency officer, staff or contract, has ever been involved in the drug business. With respect to Air America, we found that it has always forbidden, as a matter of policy, the transportation of contra- band goods aboard its aircraft. We believe that its Security Inspection Service, which is used by the cooperating air transport company as well, is now serving as an added deter- 
rent to drug traffickers.*? 
But there were aspects of the situation in Southeast Asia which were cause for concern : 
The one area of our activities in Southeast Asia that gives us some concern has to do with the agents and local officials with whom we are in contact who have been or may be still involved in one way or another in the drug business. We are not referring here to those agents who are run as penetrations 
of the narcotics industry for collection of intelligence on the industry but, rather, to those with whom we are in touch in our other operations. What to do about these people is a par- ticularly troublesome problem, in view of its implications for some of our operations, particularly in Laos.’? 
The Inspector General noted that there was a need for better intelli- gence not only to support American efforts to suppress drug traffic in Southeast Asia. but also to provide continuing assurance that Agency 
personnel and facilities were not involved in the drug business. 
His report began by placing the allegations against the CIA in his- torical perspective. It allowed that when the United States arrived 
in Southeast Asia “opium was as much a part of the agricultural infra- 
structure of this area as was rice, one suitable for the hills, the other 
for the valleys.” 5+ 
The record before the Inspector General clearly established that offi- 
cial United States policy deplored the use of opium as a narcotic in 
Southeast Asia, but regarded it as a problem for local governments. 
It was equally clear that Agency personnel in the area recognized its 
dangers to U.S. paramilitary operations and “took steps to diseourage 
“CIA Inspector General's Report. “Investigation of the Drug Situation in 
Southeast Asia,’ 9/72, p. 2. 
8 Thid., pp. 2-3. 
“t Tbid., p. 5. 
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 
ae T ee eT 


===== PDF PAGE 13 =====
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 
229 
its use by indigenous paramilitary troops.” °° For example, Meo troops 
were ejected from various camps when they were caught using the 
drug. But, the I. G. noted: 
We did not, however, attempt to prevent its use among the 
civilian population in those areas where we exercised military 
control, believing that such intervention would have been re- 
sisted by the tribals with whom we were working and might 
have even resulted in their refusal to cooperate. 
Nor did the Agency interfere with the movement of the opium from 
the hills to market in the cities farther south. In this regard, the I.G. 
remarked candidly: 
The war has clearly been our overriding priority in Southeast 
Asia and all other issues have taken second place in the scheme 
of things. It would be foolish to deny this, and we see no 
reason to do so.*" 
Although it maintained this posture, the CIA was reporting in- 
formation on opium trafficking long before any formal requrements 
were levied upon it. As far back as the mid-1960s, when CIA case 
officers began to get a picture of the opium traffic out of Burma as a 
by-product of cross-border operations, they chronicled this informa- 
tion in their operational reporting. As more information came to light 
in Laos and Thailand, this information began to appear in intelligence 
reporting. Indeed, the Agency “had substantial ascets [in two South- 
east Asian countries, which] could be specifically directed against this 
target when it assumed top priority in 1971.” 5 
Air America 
Asearly as 1957, Air America’s regulations contained an injunction 
against smuggling. This regulation later came to include opium. The 
Report indicated that the airline’s effort at this time was concen- 
trated on preventing the smuggling of opium out of Laos on its air- 
craft. Although still not a crime in Laos, shipment of opium on 
international flights was clearly illegal and was grounds for dismissal 
any pilot or crew member involved. The Inspector General stated 
that: 
Air America has had a few cases of this kind (all of which 
are documented in the files in the Agency) and has, in each 
case, taken prompt and decisive action upon their discovery.” ... 
Air America was less able to control drug traffic involving its aircraft 
within Laos. Although it had a rule that opium could not be carried 
aboard its planes, the only thing that could be done if the rule was 
violated was to put the opium and its owner off at the nearest airstrip. 
5 Toid., p. 6. 
% Thid. 
& Ibid. 3 
The report related a statement of a case officer which typified the CIA position 
in the matter during the period 1966-1968. The officer said that he “was under 
orders not to get too deeply involved in opium matters since his primary mission 
was to get on with the war and not risk souring relations with his indigenous 
military counterparts by investigation of opium matters.” 
= Thid, p. T. 
© Ibid. 
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 


===== PDF PAGE 14 =====
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 
230 
Moreover, as a charter carrier, Air America did not have full contro] over its traffic. It hauled what its customers put on the aircraft. Air operations officers, in the case of Agency traffic, were responsible for authenticating the passengers and cargo they wished to put on the plane. In some locations, the air operations officers had to rely on indigenous assistants for much of the actual details of preparing mani- fests, checking cargo, and supervising the loading of the aircraft. In areas where active military operations were in progress, this process could become cursory if not actually chaotic. In such circumstances, the Inspector General concluded that : 
it was hardly fair to blame Air America if opium happened to get aboard its aircraft. There is no question that it did on occasion. | AT Noa «be. b -4 
With the realization that drug abuse among American troops in Vietnam was growing and that Southeast Asian heroin was finding its way to U.S. markets. the CIA’s early attitude toward the opium problem began to change. The Agency joined the effort that began in 1971 to halt the flow of opium and heroin from Burma, Laos, and Thailand, and pursued a vigorous intelligence program against these targets. 
In terms of staff and contract personnel, the Inspector General was impressed that “to a man, our officers overseas find the drug business as distasteful as those at headquarters.” Indeed. many of the CIA's officers were restive about having to deal with Laotian officials who - were involved in the drug business: 
Se ten IE et aes 
One young officer even let his zea! get the better of his judg- ment and destroyed a refinery in northwest Laos in 1971 be- fore the anti-narcotics law was passed, thus risking being charged with destruction of private property.® 
But, the I.G. reported, CIA officers generally tolerated the opium problem, regarding it as just another of the frustrations one encoun- ters in the area. 
From what the Inspector General contingent was able to observe in the field, “the pilots in the employ of Air America and the cooperating air transport company merit a clean bill of health.” ° While it was true that narcotics had been found aboard some of their aircraft, in almost every case the small quantity involved could only have been for the personal use of the possessor. The Inspector General felt that 
Given the strict anti-contraband regulations under which these two airlines have been operating for years, it is highly unlikely that any pilot would knowingly have permitted nar- cotics or any other contraband aboard his aircraft. 
Although they noted, “if it is a truism to say that they’re in the business for the money,” the investigators concluded that these pilots 
© bid. p. 12. “ Thid. 
ow wen i atau te a te tree ahaa ie 
Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 
ae it To Ea Aint 
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for 


===== PDF PAGE 15 =====
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 
231 
were deeply committed to their job. and that the subject of drugs was 
as much an anathema to them as it is “to any decent, respectable citi- 
zen in the United States.” 8 
The Inspector General indicated how one pilot felt about the sub- 
ject. He stated : 
You get me a contract to defoliate the poppy fields in Burma, 
and I’ll take off right now and destroy them. I have a friend 
whose son is hooked on drugs, and I too have teenage chil- 
. dren. It scares the hell out of me as much as it does you and 
the rest of the people in the States.* 
The report also established that the pilots were well paid, averaging 
close to $45,000 a year. Almost half of their salary was tax-free. In 
this context the I.G. concluded that 
Although the temptation for big money offered by drugs can- not be dismissed out of hand, it helps to know that the pilots 
are making good money. Further, an American living in 
Vientiane can bank a substantial part of his salary without much difficulty, and a common topic of conversation among 
pilots is how and where to invest their fairly substantial 
savings.®” 
The milieu in which these pilots found themselves did serve to evoke images of them as mercenaries or soldiers of fortune. The Inspector General indicated that a “number of them do like their wine and ‘women, but on the job they are all business and very much like the average American.” 68 
The investigators, however, could not be as sanguine about the behavior of the numerous other individuals who worked for Air America and the cooperating air transport company as mechanics or baggage handlers. The nature of their work allowed these employees easy access to the airplanes, and created real opportunities for con- cealing packages of narcotics in the airframes. The records indicated that there were several instances where employees had been fired be- cause they were suspected of handling drugs. The Inspector General advisd that: 
Despite the introduction of tighter security measures, it 
would be foolish to assume that there will not be any further attempts by mechanics and baggage handlers to conceal nar- 
cotics on airplanes.® - 
In a startling revelation concerning indigenous officials in Southeast 
Asia, the I.G. bitterly reported that 
In recent testimony to Agency officers in Vientiane, Laotian officials who had been involved in the drug business stated that there was no need for drug traffickers to use Air Amer- ica facilities because they had their own. We certainly found 
“Tid. p. 14. © Thid. 
EEIE nn naeem 
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 


===== PDF PAGE 16 =====
; Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024 
232 
this to be true. In addition to the Royal Lao Air Force (RLAF), there are several commercial airlines in Laos, in- cluding Royal Air Lines, Lao Air Development, Air Laos, and perhaps others, all of which evidently have ties with high Laotian government officials. It is highly problematical whether these airlines have a full platter of legitimate busi- ness,7° 
Another factor which had the effect of making Air America a less desirable target for the drug trafficker was that there were virtually no regular, pre-arranged flight schedules for the pilots. Ordinarily. the pilot did not know until he reported for duty which airplane he would be flying or what his flight schedule would be for the day. Air America’s Security Inspection Service, which was established early in 1972, also had five inspection units in Laos. Similar units were eventually established elsewhere in Southeast Asia. Each unit consisted of an American chief and three or four indigenous personel. The baggage of the pilot and all passengers traveling in CIA-owned aircraft was inspected in the presence of an American official before anyone was permitted to board. All cargo was inspected unless it had been exempted under established procedures. The very existence of the system was considered a deterrent to drug smuggling on Air America aircraft and did result in several discoveries of drugs among the baggage of passengers, although only one or two of these involved quantities of sufficient size to be as commercial. 
Agents and Assets 
This is one area where the CIA is particularly vulnerable to criti- cism. Relationships with indigenous assets and contacts are always broad. In Laos, clandestine relationships were maintained in every aspect of the Agency’s operational program—whether paramilitary, political action, or intelligence collection. These relationships included people who either were known to be. or were suspected of being, in- volved in narcotics trafficking. Although these individuals were of con- siderable importance to the Agency, it had doubts in some instances. For example, the investigators were troubled by a foreign official who was alleged to have been involved in one instance of transporting opium. He was evidently considered “worth the damage that his ex- posure as an Agency asset would bring, although the Station insists (a) that he is of value to the Station as an agent of influence [deleted] and (b) that his complicity in the [deleted] incident has never been proved.” 7 
Among liaison contacts, which in the military arena included vir- tually every high-ranking Laotian officer. the Inspector General warned that the Agency was “in a particular dilemma.” 
The past involvement of many of these officers in drugs is well-known, and the continued participation of many is sus- pected; yet their goodwill. if not actual cooperation, con- siderably facilitates the military activities of the Agency- supported irregulars.7? 
° Thid. 
™ Ibid. 
* Ibid, p. 18, 
ane ae . ear it co . r 
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024 


===== PDF PAGE 17 =====
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 
233 
The Inspector General concluded, that 
The fact remains... that our continued support to these peo- 
ple can be construed by them, and by others who might become 
aware of the association, as evidence that the Agency is not as 
concerned about the drug problem as other elements of the 
U.S. mission in Laos. The Station has recently submitted, at 
headquarters’ request, an assessment of the possible adverse 
repercussions for the Agency, if its relationship to certain as- 
sets were exposed. We think that, on the whole, that assess- 
ment was unduly sanguine. We believe the Station should 
take a new look at this problem, using somewhat more strin- 
gent criteria in assessing the cost-benefit ratio of these rela- 
tionships. We realize that it is impossible to lay down any but 
the most general kind of rules in judging whether to con- 
tinue, or to initiate, a clandestine relationship with Laotians. 
Each case has to be decided on its own merits, but within a 
framework that attaches appropriate importance to its pos- 
sible effect on the U.S. Government’s anti-narcotics efforts in 
Laos. It is possible that the Station will need additional 
guidance from headquarters as to current priorities among 
our objectives in Laos.” 
2. Nonoperating Proprietaries 
Nonoperating proprietaries vary in complexity according to their 
Agency task. They are generally corporate shells which facilitate for- eign operations and clearly pose no competitive threat to legitimate 
businesses. The most elaborate are legally licensed and established to 
conduct bona fide business. 
All nonoperating proprietaries do have nominee stockholders, 
directors, and officers and are generally directed by one of the Agency’s proprietary management companies. The company address may be a 
Post Office box, a legitimate address provided by a cleared and witting 
company official or private individual or the address of a proprietary 
management company. The nonoperating proprietaries maintain bank 
accounts, generate business correspondence, keep books of account 
which can withstand commercial and tax audit, file State and Federal 
tax returns, and perform normal business reporting to regulatory 
authorities. They are moderately capitalized, generally at around 
$5,000, and their net worth at any one time varies according to the 
Agency task they are performing. As of December 31, 1973, more than 
60 percent of the combined net worth of these proprietaries was operat- 
ing capital for companies which provide cover to agency personnel. 
egally incorporated companies require less elaborate commercial 
administration due to the nature of the tasks they perform for the 
CIA. This kind of proprietary is directly managed by headquarters 
specialists operating in alias. No commercial book or accounts are kept, ~- and in the event of a tax audit the Agency has to brief the auditing au- 
thority. 
Depending on use, administration may be as simple as maintain- 
ing bank accounts and filing annual franchise taxes, or as extensive 
CAA 
™ Ibid, p. 19. 
69-983 O + 76 = 16 
Declassified in Part - Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2014/04/25 : CIA-RDP92M00732R000700070024-8 

