--- PDF PAGE 1 ---
(tongrrssional Rrcord 
United States 
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 102d CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION 
SENATE-Thursday, March 5, 1992 
The Senate met at 10:30 a.m., on the 
expiration of the recess, and was called 
to order by the President pro tempore 
[Mr. BYRD]. 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The 
prayer will be led by the Senate Chap­
lain, the Reverend Dr. Richard C. Hal­
verson. 
PRAYER 
The Chaplain, the Reverend Richard 
C. Halverson, D.D., offered the follow­
ing prayer: 
Let us pray: 
* * * the love of money is the root of all 
evil * * *.-I Timothy 6:10. 
Eternal God, perfect in truth, justice 
and righteousness, this is a hard saying 
by the Apostle Paul, but its reality is 
being confirmed in our time. We have 
watched greed infect our culture, rav­
age the financial world and threaten 
the economy. The destructiveness of 
this evil is immeasurable, and we des­
perately need healing and a change of 
priorities. 
Jes us said, "No man can serve two 
masters: for either he will hate the 
one, and love the other; or else he will 
hold to the one, and despise the other. 
Ye cannot serve God and mammon."­
Matthew 6:24. How easily we worship 
mammon, the Semi tic word for money, 
rather than God. How easily money re­
places God in our lives and reminds us 
that the bottom crisis is spiritual, the 
deepest need is a return to God and 
transcendent reality. 
Patient Father in Heaven, help us 
comprehend this truth and grant to us 
the grace to repent of our secular pre­
occupation with materialism and turn 
to the living God for restoration and 
renewal. 
In the name of Jesus, the Great Phy­
sician. Amen. 
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY 
LEADER 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Under 
the standing order, the majority leader 
is recognized. 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, am I 
correct in my understanding that the 
(Legislative day of Thursday, January 30, 1992) 
Journal of the proceedings has been ap­
proved to date? 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The 
Senator is correct. 
SCHEDULE 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, there 
will be a period for morning business 
until 11:30 a.m., during which Senators 
will be permitted to speak. 
At 11:30, the Senate will return to the 
consideration of the conference report 
on the Omnibus Crime Control Act. We 
began discussion of that matter yester­
day. I am deeply disappointed that our 
Republican colleagues have decided to 
engage in a filibuster to prevent the 
Senate from voting on that important 
crime control legislation. 
There has been a lot of political rhet­
oric about the need to act on crime. 
The conference report is the result of a 
bill that has been approved in both the 
House and Senate. The report itself, 
the joining of those two bills, was ap­
proved by the House, and all that re­
mains to send that bill to the President 
is for the Senate to approve it. 
Were the Senate to do so, as I hope it 
will, police officers would receive a 
great deal of assistance. Law enforce­
ment agencies all across the country 
would be strengthened. Americans 
would feel more secure against the 
threat of violence in their daily lives. · 
I regret very much that our Repub­
lican colleagues, as they- did last -y_e_ar, 
have resorted to the .. tactic of the fili­
buster to even prevent the Senate from 
voting on this important measure. 
We will continue today. It is my hope 
that our colleagu~s will reverse their 
position, once they understand the im­
portance of action on crime control 
legislation and at least permit the Sen­
ate to vote. If they choose to vote 
against the crime control legislation, 
that is, of course, the privilege of any 
Senator. 
But I think it is unfortunate that a 
bill, which could be on the President's 
desk tomorrow, the President could 
sign it and help reduce crime in our so-
ciety, assist law enforcement agencies, 
help police in the difficult dangerous 
tasks they undertake, is being quar­
tered by a minority of Senators. It is 
clear that a majority of the Senate fa­
vors this bill. A minority is preventing 
the Senate from even voting on the 
measure, which I think is most unfor­
tunate, given the importance of the 
matter and all of the political rhetoric 
on the subject. 
Mr. President, we will just continue, 
and at some point, if our colleagues 
persist in the filibuster , we will have to 
try to get the votes to terminate that 
filibuster and proceed to approve the 
measure. 
We will be back on that at 11:30, and 
I understand that our colleagues will 
be present to debate, as I have advised 
the Republican leader. Obviously, our 
colleagues have a right under the rules 
to engage in a filibuster. But if no Sen­
ator is present for debate, the question 
will be put, and our colleagues are on 
notice of that fact. So they will be re­
quired to be present and debate the 
subject. 
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I re­
serve the remainder of my leader time, 
and I reserve all of the leader time of 
the distinguished Republican leader. 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. With­
out objection, it is so ordered. 
MORNING BUSINESS 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Under 
the order, there will now be a period 
for the transaction of morning business 
with Senators permitted to speak 
therein for not to exceed 5 minutes 
each. 
Also under the order, the following 
Senators are to be recognized: the Sen­
ator from Iowa {Mr. GRASSLEY] is rec­
ognized for 20 minutes; the Senator 
from Mississippi [Mr. LOTT] is to be 
recognized for up to 20 minutes; the 
Senator from Michigan [Mr. LEVIN] is 
to be recognized for up to 10 minutes; 
•This "bullet" symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a member of the Senate on the floor. 
4491 

--- PDF PAGE 2 ---
4492 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
and the Senator from Wyoming [Mr. 
SIMPSON] will be recognized for up to 5 
minutes. 
Does the Senator from Iowa seek rec­
ognition now that he might take ad­
vantage of this order? 
PRIVILEGE OF THE FLOOR 
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I do. 
I ask unanimous consent that a legisla­
tive fellow by the name of Neil Hard­
man who worked on this subject with 
me be permitted to be on the floor dur­
ing my remarks. 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Is 
there objection? 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 
WASTE IN THE MEDICARE 
PROGRAM 
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I rise 
today to call attention to a specific ex­
ample of the continuing problem that 
we have in combating waste, fraud, and 
abuse, which occurs across the spec­
trum of Federal Government programs. 
Mr. President, this waste of tax­
payers' much-needed money is both 
widespread and egregious and, of 
course, it must come to an end, one 
program at a time. It is a little bit 
like, how do you eat 10,000 marsh­
mallows? Obviously, you eat them one 
at a time. 
Today, I would like to focus on one of 
these programs: on the vast waste in 
the Medicare Payment Safeguard Pro­
gram, and it is the focus of a GAO re­
port released February 21 of this year. 
I have been concerned about waste in 
the Medicare Program for obvious rea­
sons, and the GAO Report No. 92-52 en­
titled "Medicare: Over $1 Billion 
Should Be Recovered From Primary 
Health Insurers," does an excellent job 
of pinpointing serious waste which is 
occurring and occurring right this very 
minute. 
Mr. President, I ask that a copy of 
that GAO Report No. 92-52 be printed 
in the RECORD at the the end of my 
comments. 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. With­
out objection, it is so ordered. 
(See exhibit 1.) 
Mr. GRASSLEY. Before I get into 
that report, I want to take a moment 
to thank Senator BENTSEN, the distin­
guished chairman of the Finance Com­
mittee, and Senator PACKWOOD, the 
ranking member of that committee, for 
requesting this excellent report. 
I look forward to working with these 
Senators and the rest of the Finance 
Committee members on a just solution 
i:o a very serious problem of not recov'­
ering money owed to the Federal Gov­
ernment. 
GAO has reported on this problem in 
the past and later I will talk about 
some of their previous findings. How­
ever their current report very suc­
cinctly states the size and scope of the 
problem and points out the obvious so­
lution. 
Mr. President, in order to have a bet­
ter appreciation for the report's find­
ings, first let me take a moment to ex­
plain Medicare payment safeguards and 
how they work; second, I want to talk 
about how and why the waste is occur­
ring; and third, I want to talk about 
the legislation which I will soon intro­
duce to address the problem. 
As a matter of routine business, Med­
icare contractors perform payment 
safeguard activities which are designed 
to identify and recover trust fund dol­
lars that are inappropriately paid out 
on Medicare claims. 
These mistakes stem from paying 
claims where private insurers have pri­
mary responsibility, clerical errors, 
and paying claims which are not au­
thorized. Of course, these safeguards 
are also designed to root out fraudu­
lent and abusive claims submitted by 
unscrupulous providers. 
Contractor payment safeguard efforts 
are very much an integral part of nor­
mal claims processing and comprise 
three activi .ties: 
First, reviewing all Medicare claims 
to determine whether the services fur­
nished were medically necessary and 
appropriate; 
Second, auditing cost reports submit­
ted by providers such as home heal th 
care agencies and hospitals providing 
outpatient services, that are reim­
bursed on a cost basis; and 
Third, assuring that Medicare pays 
beneficiaries' claims only after other 
responsible insurers have paid what 
they owe. This is known as the Medi­
care Secondary Payer Program [MSP], 
enacted in 1980. The current GAO re­
port focuses on waste in the Medicare 
Secondary Payer Program. 
Mr. President, herein lies the prob­
lem that I am addressing this morning. 
Safeguard funds have been cut from 
about $358 million in 1989 to about $335 
million for 1992. Now, if funding had 
kept pace with the 11-percent growth 
in the Medicare Program, the safe­
guard budget would be $500 million in­
stead of $335 million. 
Because safeguard activities are ex­
tremely cost effective-returning a 
high of $30 for every $1 spent in the 
Medicare Secondary Payer Program to 
an average of $11 for every $1 spent on 
combined activities-these cuts have 
had a profound and compounded effect 
on program savings. 
Mr. President, I want to emphasize I 
am not talking about spending more 
money just for the sake of spending 
more money. I am talking about $1 of 
taxpayers' money being spent that can 
return $30 of money that is otherwise 
being lost to the Federal Treasury. 
In fact, GAO found that Medicare 
contractors have backlogs of claims 
mistakenly paid totalling over $1 bil­
lion. This is $1 billion that should be in 
the Federal Treasury. In addition to 
the confirmed backlogs, contractors 
had reported over 1.1 million bene­
ficiaries who had other insurance. 
GAO estimates that when these addi­
tional 1.1 million claims are researched 
an additional $1 billion could be owed 
to the Medicare trust fund by primary 
insurers. 
Mr. President, this means that over 
$2 billion owed to Medicare may never 
be collected because contractors lack 
adequate resources to recover this 
money. 
A further irony in this situation is 
that Congress in 1989 strengthened the 
Heal th Care Financing Administra­
tion's [HCFA's] ability to identify 
beneficiaries who have other insurance 
by authorizing data matches between 
the IRS and Medicare records. Congress 
did so anticipating additional Medicare 
savings of $1.6 billion over the next 3 
fiscal years. 
Unfortunately, at the same time, 
contractors began sustaining signifi­
cant budget cuts which will in many 
instances prevent them from following 
up on these new leads, as well as leads 
from other sources. 
GAO concludes that this data match 
could add several million more claims 
to the existing backlog of mistaken 
Medicare payments. Mr. President, this 
could mean that billions of additional 
dollars are potentially owed to Medi­
care and given the resource limita­
tions, contractors · have little hope of 
ever recovering this money. 
Mr. President, the fiscal year 1992 
HHS budget simply will not permit 
contractors to significantly reduce 
these backlogs. This budget of $334 mil­
lion is below fiscal year 1989 levels 
when claims volume was 27-percent less 
and it is 22-percent less than what the 
contractors requested. 
In fact, fiscal year 1992 budget cuts 
have forced contractors to reduce their 
staffing levels by over 1,000 full-time 
positions. Of the 451 positions lost in 
the Medicare part A area, 41 percent 
were in provider audit units, an impor­
tant payment safeguard area. 
Of the 698 positions lost in the Medi­
care part B area, 30 percent were in 
medical utilization and review and 
Medicare secondary payer uni ts. These 
forced reductions cannot help but limit 
efforts to recover money owed to Medi­
care and of course that is not even the 
whole story. 
The fact is, these are highly trained 
and knowledgeable people who are 
being terminated-people who are not 
so easy to replace. Provider auditors 
take up to 2 years to train before they 
are able to begin returning money to 
the Medicare Program. 
Worse yet, it is a well known fact 
that when these highly trained pay­
ment safeguard folks are let go by con­
tractors, they jump the fence and they 
earn more money by advising hospitals 
and other providers on how to maxi­
mize their reimbursements from the 

--- PDF PAGE 3 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4493 
taxpayers or more directly from the 
Medicare trust fund. 
They even take out ads in provider 
trade journals to publicize their unique 
skills in this area to help get more of 
the taxpayers' money ·. They are so con­
fident, Mr. President, of their ability 
to increase reimbursements to provid­
ers that in many cases they work on a 
commission basis. 
This serious situation cannot be al­
lowed to stand. Contractors must be 
given more stability to help them 
carry out their responsibilities more 
effectively. 
This is a penny-wise and pound-fool­
ish budget policy which is costing the 
taxpayers billions of dollars. With 
rates of return as high as $30 to $1 it 
just does not make sense to not fund 
Medicare payment safeguards. 
Furthermore, untold dollars owed to 
Medicare may be lost because of an 
IIBS regulation which limits the time 
a contractor has to initiate recovery of 
a mistaken claim after it identifies the 
primary insurer. The regulation limits 
recovery to between 15 and 27 months 
depending on when the mistaken claim 
is identified. 
Mr. President, I plan to ask the 
Health Care Financing Administration 
[HCF A] if trust fund dollars have been 
lost or are expected to be lost because 
of this regulation. Here and now I 
would simply ask HCF A to reexamine 
the wisdom of a regulation which holds 
such potentially dire consequences for 
the taxpayers money. 
Mr. President, just to insure an un­
derstanding of exactly how budget cuts 
translate into the waste that is occur­
ring in the Medicare Secondary Payer 
Program, I would like to cite some spe­
cific examples from a previous GAO re­
port. 
GAO's findings are based on Medicare 
contractor field studies-and their 
findings are very disconcerting. 
One contractor had over a 3,000-case 
backlog where Medicare mistakenly 
paid about $8.8 million for services to 
beneficiaries who had private insur­
ance. Because of staffing constraints, 
the contractor was able to do little to 
recover the payments. 
For one beneficiary alone, GAO iden­
tified 153 claims totaling $42,000 which 
were most likely the responsibility of a 
private insurer. Again, staffing con­
straints hampered recovery. 
Because of budget cutbacks, HCF A 
raised the threshold for claims develop­
ment for a Florida carrier from $50 to 
$250. This meant that any claim less 
than $250 was automatically paid with­
out even trying to determine if the 
beneficiary had private insurance. 
Claims totaling $34 million were auto­
matically paid while the HCF A direc­
tive was in effect. One can only imag­
ine the losses which may have occurred 
here. 
The examples of GAO's findings are 
too numerous to mention although I 
believe that those I cited demonstrate 
effectively why billions of dollars are 
being wasted each and every year. 
As a result of their field audits, GAO 
recommends strengthening manage­
ment and fully funding safeguard ac­
tivities to prevent these substantial 
losses to the trust funds. The HHS In­
spector General has also called atten­
tion to this dilemma and has rec­
ommended that funding levels and 
management initiatives be increased. 
How in the world can we justify to 
the American people siphoning off dol­
lars from an activity that produces 
such a tremendous return on invest­
ment? Especially in this case, when it 
amounts to throw:ing away the tax­
payers' hard earned dollar. It simply 
cannot be justified because it is just 
flat out irresponsible. 
At least Congress had the wisdom to 
exempt IRS enforcement activities 
from any cuts stipulated by the budget 
agreement. With regard to the Veter­
ans' Administration, a self-sustaining 
revolving fund was created to identify 
and recover third party payments simi­
lar to those owed in the Medicare Sec­
ondary Payer Program. 
However, as big as it is and with so 
much money at stake, Medicare safe­
guard activities have been left out in 
the cold in terms of sustained funding, 
never mind being compensateti for 
growth due to inflation and more im­
portantly, the substantial annual 
growth in claims workload. 
Mr. President, this simply cannot be 
allowed to continue, especially when 
you consider the consequences for what 
has been happening since the cuts 
began. 
I think it is clear that we must cor­
rect this funding-related anomaly 
which results in a waste of the tax­
payers' money. 
It is also clear that the Health Care 
Financing Administration needs to 
take a more hands-on approach in im­
plementing new and effective manage­
ment controls to seriously reduce the 
number of claims payment errors. 
That is to say, HCFA, and the con­
tractors need to do their level best to 
end this "pay and chase" scenario by 
achieving better payment accuracy. 
The taxpayers money would be much 
better spent in other areas instead of 
being used to chase after mistakes. 
However, until that day comes---and 
believe me it must come-we must pro­
vide the necessary funding to recover 
these huge sums of money. It is simply 
inconceivable to continue our present 
policy of allowing this waste to con­
tinue. 
In addition, HCF A and the contrac­
tors need to collaborate to design a 
better management information sys­
tem to track and report on the status 
of claims errors. Currently contractors 
accumulate and report to HCF A 
monthly data regarding program sav­
ings realized under certain provisions. 
These monthly reports include cost 
avoided and cost recovered savings, 
however they do not include data on 
inventories of claims errors which have 
been identified but not recovered. 
HCF A must begin to collect this in­
formation immediately so as to have a 
better accounting of funds outstanding 
at any given time. 
Quite frankly Mr. President, I won­
der about the sum of money outstand­
ing over the past several years which 
has not, and may never be, identified. 
HCF A and the Medicare contractors 
must first work hard to obtain an accu­
rate accounting of outstanding Medi­
care trust fund dollars and begin recov­
ery efforts. Then they must work even 
harder to curtail payment errors in the 
future. 
· Mr. President, I have studied this 
problem carefully and, in the interest 
of progress, I have talked with the ad­
ministration, GAO, Medicare contrac­
tors, the Congressional Budget Office, 
and several committees. 
As a result of these discussions, I 
hope to be back on the floor very soon 
to introduce a bill which will provide a 
mechanism to effectively address the 
substantial waste and payment errors 
which occur annually in the Medicare 
Program. 
It is essential that we recover the 
large sums of money owed to the Medi­
care Program and that we take the 
necessary steps to end the practice of 
pay and chase in the Medicare Second­
ary Payer Program. 
In this age of information it just does 
not seem reasonable for Medicare to 
blindly pay a claim and maybe or 
maybe not find out that the individual 
has private health insurance and 
maybe or maybe not be able to recover 
the money if he does. 
Personally, I am interested in explor­
ing the idea of a third-party liability 
clearing house whereby the Secretary 
would establish and maintain a 
database on Medicare beneficiaries who 
also have private group health cov­
erage either through their employment 
or that of a spouse. 
This information could be reported to 
HHS on a regular basis by employers, 
insurers, States and Federal entities. 
With this database knowledge Medi­
care could deny claims where private 
insurers have primary responsibility 
instead of mistakenly paying them and 
hoping they catch and recover the 
error. 
It stands to reason that the more the 
management side of this equation is 
improved, such as with a clearing 
house to reduce payment errors, the 
less we will have to spend in future 
years on recovery efforts. And that, 
Mr. President, should make everyone 
happy, especially this Senator from 
Iowa. 
Mr. President, for all of the reasons I 
have cited, I would encourage my col­
leagues to read GAO Report No. 92-52 

--- PDF PAGE 4 ---
4494 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
and urge them to support my forth­
coming bill so that we may help to pre­
serve and protect the Medicare trust 
funds in an effective, efficient manner. 
I yield the floor. 
ExHIBIT l 
[U.S. General Accounting Office] 
MEDICARE: OVER $1 BILLION SHOULD BE 
RECOVERED FROM PRIMARY HEALTH INSURERS 
(Report to the Committee on Finance, U.S. 
Senate, February 1991) 
GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE, 
B-241122. 
HUMAN RESOURCES DIVISION, 
Washington, DC, February 21, 1991. 
Hon. LLOYD BENTSEN, 
Chairman, Committee on Finance, U.S. Senate. 
Hon. BOB p ACKWOOD, 
Ranking Minority Member, Committee on Fi­
nance, U.S. Senate. 
In this report, we respond to your request 
that we review Medicare contractors' ef!orts 
to administer provisions of the Medicare sec­
ondary payer (MSP) program. These provi­
sions are intended to make certain that in­
surers whose coverage is primary pay claims 
before Medicare. Contractors are responsible 
for (1) making certain that health providers 
identify and bill primary insurers, thereby 
preventing mistaken Medicare payments, 
and (2) identifying and recovering mistaken 
payments made before contractors confirmed 
a beneficiary had other insurance. 
We previously reported that contractors 
were ineffective in identifying primary in­
surers and avoiding mistaken Medicare pay­
ments. We, therefore, recommended actions 
to improve identification of primary insur­
ers.1 In this report, we identify contractors' 
backlogs of mistaken payments and review 
the effect of recent budget reductions on 
contractors' efforts, after confirming that 
beneficiaries have other insurance, to re­
cover these payments from primary insurers. 
We did our work relating to budget cuts at 
three carriers-in Arizona, California, and 
Nevada-that pay Medicare part B claims for 
physician, outpatient, laboratory, 3:nd cer­
tain other medical and health services. At 
two of these carriers, we determined the ex­
tent to which Medicare carriers were recov­
ering mistaken payments by taking r8:ndom 
samples of beneficiaries with other msur­
ance. 
After we completed our field work at the 
three carriers, the Health Care Fina~cing 
Administration (HCF A) surveyed Medicare 
contractors to determine MSP backlogs. We 
have included the survey results-which pro­
vide nationwide information on unrecover .ed 
mistaken payments owed to Medicare-in 
this report. (See app. I for a more detailed 
discussion of our objectives, scope, and 
methodology.) 
RESULTS IN BRIEF 
Many Medicare contractors have signifi­
cant backlogs of mistaken payments for 
Medicare beneficiaries that are unrecovered 
from primary health insurers. Responding to 
a HCFA survey, Medicare contrac~o~s r~­
cently reported backlogs of over Sl billion m 
beneficiary claims that they confirmed were 
mistakenly paid. 
In addition to the confirmed backlogs, con­
tractors had reported over 1.1 million bene­
ficiaries who had other insurance. However, 
1 Medicare: More Hospital Costs Should Be Paid by 
Other Insurers (GAOIHRD--87-43, Jan. 29, 1987), and 
Medicare: Incentives Needed to Assure Private In­
surers Pay Before Medicare (GAO/HRD-89-19, Nov. 
29, 1988). 
the contractors had not yet researched pre­
viously paid beneficiary claims to determine 
what amounts Medicare paid that primary 
insurers should have paid. Our work suggests 
that once these claims are researched, an ad­
ditional Sl billion or more in mistaken pay­
ments could be owed by primary insurers. 
HCF A has recently initiated an effort that 
will identify additional primary insurers and 
could add several million more claims to the 
existing backlogs of mistaken Medicare pay­
ments. Furthermore, millions of dollars that 
primary insurers owe Medicare may be lost 
because of a Department of Health and 
Human Services (HHS) regulation. The regu­
lation limits the time a contractor has to 
initiate recovery action on a claim after it 
identifies a primary insurer. 
Collections of MSP mistaken payments far 
exceed carriers' cost of recovery. Neverthe­
less, Medicare contractors advised HCF A 
that inadequate MSP funding is the reason 
for the backlogs of mistaken payments. The 
fiscal year 1992 HHS budget will not permit 
contractors to significantly reduce the exist­
ing backlogs. This budget is (1) below_ the fis­
cal year 1989 funding levels, when claims vol­
ume was about 27 percent less and contrac­
tors did not have huge MSP backlogs, and (2) 
about 22 percent less than the Medicare con­
tractors requested. 
BACKGROUND 
Medicare helps pay medical costs for about 
35 million aged and disabled persons under a 
two-part system: part A, which covers i~pa­
tient hospital services, home health services, 
and various other institutional services; and 
part B, which covers physician, outpatient 
hospital, and other health services, such as 
diagnostic tests. HOF A, as part of HHS, ad­
ministers the Medicare program and is re­
sponsible for establishing policy,_ developin_g 
operating guidelines, and ensurmg compli­
ance with Medicare legislation. HCFA oper­
ates the program with assistance from insur­
ance companies that it contracts with to 
process and pay claims for covered services. 
The insurance companies-called inter­
mediaries under part A and carriers under 
part B-are expected to pay Medicare bene­
fits totaling about $127 billion in fiscal year 
1992. The volume of Medicare claims has in­
creased by about 11 percent annually and is 
expected to exceed 650 million in fiscal year 
1992. . 965 In enacting the Medicare program m 1 , 
the Congress made Medicare the secondar?' 
payer for beneficiaries covered by both Medi­
care and workers' compensation. The Con­
gress made several statutory changes during 
the 1980s that also made Medicare the sec­
ondary payer to certain employer-sponsored 
group health insurance plans and to auto­
mobile and other liability insurance plans. 
These changes are commonly referred to as 
the MSP provisions. 
Medicare contractors rely on health care 
providers to obtain data on beneficiaries' 
health insurance coverage and to identify in­
surers who should pay before Medicare. The 
contractors should take two actions after 
learning that a beneficiary has other insur­
ance. First, contractors should enter a 
"flag" in their claims-processing sy_stem so 
that Medicare will deny future claims and 
send them to the beneficiary's insurer. Sec­
ond, cont~actors should research the ?en~­
ficiary's claims history file to determme. if 
Medicare has paid claims after the other m­
surance went into effect and, if so, attempt 
recovery. 
CONTRACTOR'S MSP BACKLOGS EXCEED Sl 
BILLION 
In April 1991, HOF A instructed contractors 
to develop a system to identify and report, 
on a quarterly basis, the number and dollar 
amount of mistaken payments that were un­
recovered because of the lack of funds. Prior 
to that time, HCF A did not regularly collect 
or require contractors to identify and report 
mistaken payments that were owed by pri­
mary insurers.2 Initial contractor reports on 
backlogs were due by June l, 1991. 
Judging from the first two quarterly re­
ports, contractors have significant backlogs 
of mistaken payments that should be recov­
ered from primary insurers. In the first re­
port about 50 percent of the contractors 
identified backlogs of about S990 million. 
Carriers reported over $179 million in back­
logs intermediaries reported over $811 mil­
lion.3 The remaining contractors did not pro­
vide information on backlogs. 
HCFA's analysis of the contractors' re­
ports showed that many contained missing 
or inaccurate data. For example, some con­
tractors failed to submit complete reports or 
did not specify the dollar amounts of identi­
fied MSP claims. As a result, in late July 
1991 HOF A instructed its regional offices to 
ree~amine contractor reports for missing 
data. 
Medicare contractors' second quarterly re­
ports showed backlogs of about $1.14. b~l~ion, 
or about $150 million more than was initially 
reported. Carriers reported about $155 mil­
lion in backlogs and intermediaries over $984 
million. HOF A found that overall these re­
ports were more accurate than the first ones. 
About 36 percent of the contractors did not 
provide information on backlogs. 
In addition to the confirmed MSP back­
logs, 70 percent of the contractors advised 
NCF A that they had identified over 1.1 mil­
lion additional beneficiaries who had other 
insurance.4 However, the contractors had not 
researched these beneficiaries' claims, paid 
before the contractors confirmed other in­
surance, to determine amounts paid by Medi­
care that may be the responsibility of pri­
mary insurers. Considering that the average 
Medicare payment for services provided to 
enrollees is about $2,800, contractors may 
have paid more than $1 billion in Medicare 
claims that are potentially recoverable from 
primary insurers. 
Our work at two carriers shows the mag­
nitude of the problem. At Aetna of Phoenix 
and Transamerica Occidental of Southern 
California, we took random samples of 423 
beneficiaries who were identified as having 
other insurance. We found . that the carriers 
had paid one or more claims, totaling 
$192,161, for 150 of the 423 beneficiaries, be­
fore identifying a primary ins\}rer. On the 
basis of these samples, we estimate that 
these two carriers made about $36 million in 
mistaken payments for more than 26,000 
Medicare beneficiaries. 
HCFA DATA MATCH MAY ADD MILLIONS OF 
CLAIMS TO MSP BACKLOGS 
HCFA has recently initiated a data match 
that uses Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and 
Social Security Administration records. Re­
quired by the Omnibus Budget Reconcili­
ation Acts of 1989 and 1990, this data match 
identifies a beneficiary or a spouse with 
health coverage through an employer-spon-
2Medicare: Millions in Potential Recoveries Not 
Being Sought by Contractors (GAOl'I'-HRD-91-$, 
Feb. 26, 1991), presented before the Subcommittee on 
Oversight, House Committee on Ways and Means . 
a We reported previously on contractor problems 
in recovering mistaken payments. Medicare: Mil­
lions in Potential Recoveries Not Being Sought by 
Maryland Contractor (GAO/HRD-91-32, Jan. 25, 1991). 
4 Thirty percent of the contractors did not provide 
information on beneficiaries who had other insur­
ance. 

--- PDF PAGE 5 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4495 
sored group health plan.5 HCFA indicated 
that identifying spouses with health insur­
ance has been difficult. It believes these 
spouses make up the largest category of un­
discovered MSP savings. 
After beneficiary insurance information is 
obtained, it will be entered into Medicare's 
automated claims-processing system to pre­
vent Medicare from mistakenly paying MSP 
claims. In addition, HCFA will use this infor­
mation to determine prior mistaken pay­
ments. HCF A will give Medicare contractors 
lists of mistaken payments that should be 
investigated and, if appropriate, recovered 
from primary insurers. The data match will 
help identify additional primary insurers. It 
could add millions of mistaken payments to 
the already large backlog. 
LIMITED TIME REMAINING FOR RECOVERING 
MANY MISTAKEN PAYMENTS 
Effective November 13, 1989, HHS regula­
tions limit the time Medicare contractors 
have for initiating recovery of MSP mis­
taken payment, including those that will be 
identified by the HCFA data match. These 
regulations provide, in effect, that once a 
mistaken payment has been identified, Medi­
care contractors must inform the primary 
insurer of its payment responsibilities with­
in 15 to 27 months depending on when in the 
calendar year the mistaken payment is iden ­
tified. For example, Medicare contractors 
had until December 31, 1991, to inform pri­
mary insurers that they owe the program 
about $420 million in mistaken payments 
that Medicare contractors identified between 
November 13, 1989, and September 30, 1990. If 
timely notification has not been given, Medi­
care will be unable to recover the mistaken 
payments. 
MSP BUDGET REDUCTIONS HAMPER CARRIER 
COLLECTION OF MISTAKEN PAYMENTS 
Nationwide, part B funding for MSP activi­
ties was reduced from $38.3 million in fisca1 
year 1989 to $15.2 million in 1990, a 60-percent 
reduction. Part B MSP budgets remained 
about the same in fiscal year 1991. Budget re­
ductions caused HCF A to raise the carriers' 
dollar threshold for reviewing claims to con­
firm that another insurer was the primary 
payer. The threshold went from $50 to $250. 
Thus, claims of less than $250 were paid with ­
out confirming if the beneficiary had other 
insurance coverage. In addition, HCFA in­
formed carriers in October 1989 that the re­
covery of mistaken payments would be a 
low -priority activity, to be conducted as 
funding permitted . However, carriers wer,e 
expected to make sure that Medicare did not 
pay for beneficiaries who had other insur­
ance. 
For the carriers we visited, the effect of 
budget reductions were evident. They were 
not recovering identified mistaken payments 
between late October 1989, when their MSP 
budgets were cut, and March 1991, when we 
completed our field work. We observed many 
claims related to the mistaken payments 
stored in boxes or filing cabinets. In fiscal 
year 1990, MSP budgets declined and re­
mained below fiscal year 1989 levels. For ex­
ample, the carriers we visited had MSP budg­
et reductions of 35 to 59 percent. 
The three carriers had to make significant 
MSP staff reductions because of the reduced 
funding . . The MSP full-time staffs were re­
duced from a combined fiscal year 1989 level 
of 84.6 to a fiscal year 1990 level of 32.5. 
The most severe reduction was made at 
Blue Shield of California, which went from 
5The 1990 act extended the data match program 
from September 1991 through September 1995. 
33.3 full-time staff to 7. Further, a 1990 re­
view by the HHS Office of Inspector General 
found that seven carriers had reduced MSP 
full-time staff from 127 in fiscal year 1989 to 
48 in fiscal year 1990. As a result, five of the 
carriers discontinued MSP recovery activi­
ties.6 HCFA realized the effect of the reduced 
MSP funding early in fiscal year 1991, when 
many carriers informed HCF A regional of­
fices that they could not process backlogged 
MSP cases at current funding levels. Any un­
anticipated increase in claims, HCF A said, 
would make the backlogs even greater. 
HCFA provided about $3.9 million to Medi­
care contractors in fiscal year 1991 so that 
they could notify primary insurers about the 
$240 million in mistaken payments by the 
December 31, 1991, deadline (seep. 5). 
The carriers we visited received additional 
MSP funding and began efforts to recover 
mistaken payments during the summer of 
1991. Additional fiscal year 1992 funds are 
needed, they stated, to continue these ef­
forts. However, the HCFA fiscal year 1992 
MSP budget is $70 million, or about $20 mil­
lion less than Medicare contractors re­
quested for MSP activities. 7 The 1992 budget, 
which includes about $2.9 million for the re­
covery of mistaken payments, is about $8.0 
million below the MSP funding levels in fis­
cal year 1989. During that time claims vol­
ume was about 27 percent less and contrac­
tors were not faced with huge MSP backlogs. 
BUDGET PROCESS CONSTRAINS CARRIER 
FUNDING 
The Budget Enfor.cement Act of 1990 im­
posed new constraints on federal funding. In 
general, this law provides that federal discre ­
tionary spending, which includes Medicare 
contractor expenditures , be subject to spend­
ing limits. Medicare contractor savings 
achieved through payment safeguard activi­
ties, such as MSP, do not count as offsets to 
any increased spending for additional recov­
eries.a Thus, increased spending for these ac­
tivities, including MSP recoveries, would re­
quire cuts in other federal programs to re­
main within the established budgetary lim­
its. 
The Congress resolved a similar problem, 
funding IRS enforcement activities, by per­
mitting additional funding for enforcement 
activities without cutting spending else ­
where. The law provides for discretionary 
spending limits to be increased if additional 
appropriations are made for IRS compliance 
spending . Consistent with the act, the antici­
pated effect of this budgeting mechanism 
was to authorize increased expenditures for 
specific activities likely to produce a reduc­
tion in federal spending. 
Several times previously, we reported and 
testified on the need for adequate funding of 
contractor MSP activities and other pay­
ment safeguards that help ensure the accu­
racy of Medicare payments. In our February 
1991 testimony, we said that the proposed fis­
cal year 1992 funding was insufficient to ad­
dress the carrier's backlogs of mistaken pay­
ments-estimated at about $200 million. 
The Health Insurance Association of Amer­
ica , whose membership includes several Med­
icare contractors, shared our concerns. The 
6 0ffice of Inspector General, HHS , testimony pre­
sented before the Subcommittee on Oversight , 
House Committee on Ways and Means (Feb. 26, 1991). 
7 The budget includes $6.6 million for Group Health 
Incorporated to obtain beneficiary insurance infor­
mation for the HCFA data match project. 
8 Contractors are required to perform other safe­
guard activities , including a review of all claims to 
determine medical necessity and appropriateness 
and the audit of providers' cost reports that are re- . 
imbursed on a cost basis. 
association stated that the lack of adequate 
MSP funding has prevented Medicare con­
tractors from recovering annually hundreds 
of million of dollars in mistaken payments.e 
Intermediaries and carriers do not have the 
staff, the association added, to cope with the 
work load, and HCFA's overall contractor 
budget is so tight that reallocating sufficient 
funds from other essential activities to 
strengthen the MSP effort is impossible. 
We previously suggested that the Congress 
consider establishing a mechanism, similar 
to that applicable to IRS funding, to facili­
tate adequate funding of Medicare program 
safeguard activities.10 
Additional MSP funding is an appropriate 
investment that will enabie Medicare con­
tractors to recover over Sl billion in mis­
taken Medicare payments. For example, our 
work at two carriers shows that collections 
of mistaken MSP payments far exceeds the 
carriers' cost of recovery. On the basis of our 
cost-benefit analysis, we estimate that for 
every dollar spent, Transamerica Occidental 
can recover $8.65 and Aetna Life and Cas­
ualty can recover $14.65. 
CONTRACTORS COULD USE CONTINGENCY FUNDS 
TO RECOVER MISTAKEN PAYMENTS 
While contractors lack the necessary funds 
to recover mistaken payments, another part 
of the Medicare budget has grown signifi­
cantly over the past several years. Histori­
cally, an increasing part of the budget has 
been set aside in a contingency fund to cover 
unanticipated administrative expenses. The 
fund, as a line item in the HCFA budget, has 
grown from $20 million, or 2 percent of the 
fiscal year 1985 contractor budget, to $257 
million, or 15 percent of the 1992 budget . 
HCFA monitors contractor expenditures 
and work loads throughout the year and re­
quests the release of contingency funds. 
Such requests and the supporting justifica­
tions go through HHS and must ultimately 
be approved by the Office of Management 
and Budget (OMB). Unused contingency 
funds are not carried over from year to year. 
Contingency funds have been used for un­
anticipated increases in work load or operat­
ing costs. For example, early in fiscal year 
1991, HCFA requested that OMB release $101.3 
million to fund increases in claims work load 
and legislatively mandated activities. In­
cluded in HCF A's request was $3.1 million for 
Medicare contractors to process backlogged 
mistaken payments. Such funds, HCF A esti­
mated, would result in the recovery of about 
$50 million. During February 1991, OMB re­
leased $75 million. However, by reallocating 
funds within the contractor budget, a HCFA 
official said, the additional MSP funding was 
provided and contingency funds were not re­
leased. 
CONCLUSIONS 
In the last decade, the Congress has made 
several changes to the MSP program. These 
changes have been made to help reduce Medi­
care costs by making certain insurers the 
primary payers for beneficiary services. 
However , amounts owed by other health in­
surers are unrecoverd or, in many cases, un­
identified even after Medicare contractors 
have confirmed that beneficiaries have other 
health insurance that provides primary cov­
erage . Nationwide, large backlogs of mis­
taken payments remain unrecovered. 
s Mistaken and ·unrecovered Medicare Payments, 
statement presented to the House of Representa­
tives , Committee on Ways and Means, Subcommit­
tee on Oversight. 
10 Medicare: Further Changes Needed to Reduce 
Program and Beneficiary Costs (GAO/HRD-91-67, 
May 15, 1991). 

--- PDF PAGE 6 ---
4496 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
Significant program savings are not being 
realized because contractors do not have the 
funds they need to recover MSP mistaken 
payments. The fiscal year 1992 MSP funding 
levels are below the amounts provided in fis­
cal year 1989, yet the number of beneficiary 
claims is significantly higher, and large 
backlogs remain. Increase funding of MSP 
activities is essential if over $1 billion in 
mistaken payments are to be recovered. 
One way to increase MSP funding would be 
for the Congress to amend the Budget En­
forcement Act. The Congress, in debating the 
need for increased contractor funding, could 
consider establishing a mechanism to facili­
tate increased funding of Medicare payment 
safeguard activities, particularly the recov­
ery of MSP mistaken payments. This recov­
ery would be of substantial benefit to the 
government. 
An alternate solution to the funding prob­
lem would be for HCF A to request and for 
OMB to release a portion of the contingency 
funds contained in the 1992 budget. Contrac­
tors could use these funds to begin recover­
ing amounts owed to Medicare primary in­
surers. 
RECOMMENDATION 
We recommend that the Secretary of HHS 
direct the Administrator of HCFA to initiate 
a request to OMB to release the necessary 
contingency funds for use in recovering mis­
taken payments owed to Medicare. 
We do not obtain written agency com­
ments on this report. We did, however, dis­
cuss its contents with HCF A officials who 
agreed with the report's findings and conclu­
sions. We incorporated their comments 
where appropriate. 
We are sending copies of this report to the 
Secretary of HHS; the Administrator of 
HCFA; interested congressional committees 
and subcommittees; the Director, OMB; and 
other interested parties. Copies will also be 
made available to others on request. 
Please call me on (202) 512-7119 if you or 
your staffs have any questions concerning 
this report. Other major contributors are 
listed in appendix II. 
JANET L . SHIKLES, 
Director, Health Financing 
and Policy Issues. 
APPENDIX I: OBJECTIVES, SCOPE, AND 
METHODOLOGY 
Our review was directed at MSP activities 
under the Medicare part B program. It was 
begun because of a nationwide 60-percent 
funding reduction in fiscal year 1990. Our ob­
jectives were to determine (1) if significant 
backlogs of unrecovered mistaken MSP pay­
ments existed and (2) the effect of the budget 
cuts on carriers' efforts to recover Medicare 
mistaken payments after learning that Med­
icare was not the primary insurer. Our work 
was carried out at (1) Aetna Life and Cas­
ualty Company, a carrier serving Arizona 
and Nevada; (2) Blue Shield of California, the 
carrier for Northern California; and (3) 
Transamerica Occidental Life Insurance 
Company, the carrier for Southern Califor­
nia. 
At all three carriers, we (1) reviewed MSP 
funding and staff allocations before and after 
the budget reductions and (2) determined the 
carrier efforts to identify and recover mis­
taken MSP payments. We also discussed re­
source issues with carrier officials, as well as 
HCFA headquarters and regional staff. We 
reviewed MSP legislation and HCF A guid­
ance relating to carrier MSP activities. 
Using contractor computerized files, we es­
timated the backlogs of unrecovered mis­
taken payments at Aetna Life and Casualty 
Company and Transamerica Occidental Life 
Insurance Company. We selected random 
samples of 423 beneficiaries who were identi­
fied as having other insurance . We deter­
mined the effective date of the beneficiary's 
primary insurance and reviewed Medicare 
payment history files (from Jan. 1, 1987, to 
Sept. 1, 1990) to identify potential mistaken 
payments made while the other insurance 
was in effect. Based on our .samples, we esti­
mate that these two carriers had about $36 
million in unrecovered mistaken payments. 11 
These results were discussed with carrier 
representatives . Where appropriate, we in­
corporated their comments. 
In addition, we developed models to esti­
mate the cost to recover mistaken payments 
made by Transamerica Occidental and Aetna 
Life and Casualty. For these carriers, we 
identified recovery activities (such as re­
searching a beneficiary's claims history, pre­
paring refund requests, processing refunds, 
or withholding payment on future claims in 
the amount of the mistaken payment); the 
time required to complete each activity; and 
the associated staff costs for each activity. 
In addition, direct and overhead costs were 
calculated. We also calculated a cost-benefit 
ratio for each carrier, based on HCF A esti­
mates that 75 percent of mistaken payments 
are recoverable. Each carrier reviewed and 
commented on the costs associated with 
identification and recovery of mistaken pay­
ments. Their comments were considered in 
our estimates. 
After we completed our work at the car­
riers, HCF A surveyed Medicare contractors 
to determine unrecovered mistaken pay­
ments. We included the survey results in this 
report but did not review the reporting re­
quirements or assess how each contractor de­
termined its reported backlogs. We did our 
work between August 1990 and May 1991 in 
accordance with generally accepted govern­
ment auditing standards. 
APPENDIX II: MAJOR CONTRIBUTORS TO THIS 
REPORT 
Human Resources Division, Washington , 
D.C.: Susan D. Kladiva, Assistant Director, 
(202) 512-7106; Alfred R. Schnupp, Assignment 
Manager. 
San Francisco Regional Office: Thomas P. 
Monahan, Heal th Issue Area Manager; Ran­
dolph D. Jones, Evaluator-in-Charge; Brad C. 
Dobbins, Evaluator; Dylan A. Jones, Evalua­
tor. 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The 
Senator from North Carolina [Mr. SAN­
FORD] is recognized for not to exceed 5 
minutes. 
DEBT COVERUP 
Mr. SANFORD. Mr. President, I want 
to commend the Washington Post of 
last week for bringing attention to the 
confusion about the Federal budget 
deficit, suggesting that it has become, 
in their words, a "cosmic mystery," 
and I quite agree. There were so many 
different deficit numbers in President 
Bush's fiscal year 1993 budget proposal 
that even budget experts had trouble 
understanding what they meant and 
where they fit. 
It seems to me the best reason for 
listing so many different deficit num-
11 At the 95-percent confidence level, we estimate 
the unrecovered mistaken payments to be between 
S22.7 and $51.7 million. 
bers--the only reason, the only expla­
nation-is to confuse the people and 
cover up the honest deficit, which is 
the annual increase in the Federal 
debt. The President does not want the 
public to know how bad things are. No­
where in the President's 1,713-page 
budget proposal, weighing more than 6 
pounds, was the honest deficit number 
that could easily be understood-even 
by children-which reflects the amount 
that will be spent and must be bor­
rowed, the amount that will be added 
to the Federal debt in fiscal year 1993. 
That is an easy, straightforward, hon­
est deficit number for everyone to un­
derstand, but that number is nowhere 
to be found in the President's budget. 
Why is it important to have honest 
deficit numbers that reflect what is 
added to the Federal debt each year? 
The President's fiscal year 1993 budget 
proposal estimates that the Federal 
debt, subject to the limit at the end of 
fiscal year 1992, will be $4.053 trillion. 
This information is found on page 289 
of the President's budget. 
Using a little math, these numbers 
show that the President estimates that 
$464 billion is the true deficit. That is 
the figure that will be added to the 
Federal debt in fiscal year 1993, and no 
wonder he does not want the public to 
know about it. 
And yet in all that array of pages of 
his budget, the President's deficits do 
not reflect that. His smallest deficit 
number, defined in some gobbledygook, 
is $62 billion, and his largest deficit 
number, reported in clear figures, is 
$352 billion. Yet his budget will add 
$464 billion to the debt this coming 
year, more than $100 billion above what 
he claims will be the deficit, and that 
is hidden from the public. 
Honest budget deficits are important 
because the public deserves to know 
how much the Federal debt is growing 
each year. Gramm-Rudman, no matter 
how well-intended in its conception, 
turned out to mislead the public into 
believing that Federal deficits were 
getting smaller when they were not. 
The coverup, the misuse of trust fund 
surpluses was getting larger, and so 
was the debt. The deficits were not 
coming down. The coverup was build­
ing up. 
It is time for the President to report 
honest annual deficits in his budget 
proposals. S. 101 requires honest deficit 
reporting. Taxpaying families want to 
know the honest deficits, not gobbledy­
gook. 
Mr. President, how much time do I 
have left? 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The 
Senator has 40 seconds remaining. 
Mr. SANFORD. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that I be allowed 
an additional 2 minutes to make an ad­
ditional speech. 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Is 
there objection? Hearing no objection, 
the Senator is recognized for 2 minutes 
and 40 seconds. · 

--- PDF PAGE 7 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4497 
DOUBLE TALK AND NATIONAL 
DEBT 
Mr. SANFORD. Mr. President, my 
colleague from North Carolina [Mr. 
HELMS] has come to the floor with 
great fanfare to point out the size of 
our national debt. While I agree with 
his concern and have fought to have 
this revealed now for years, and I agree 
with the implications of this debt, his 
statements ignore any discussion of 
how we got into such an unenviable po­
sition. As my colleagues surely know, 
the President presents the budget to 
the Congress. In the past 12 years, no 
President has submitted a balanced 
budget. 
The historical tables tell us that the 
cumulative deficits of Presidents 
Reagan and Bush from the 1982 budget 
to the President's proposed 1993 budget, 
including the 6-year period when the 
Republican Party controlled the U.S. 
Senate, have exceeded $3 trillion, more 
than 300 percent in excess of the debt 
at the expiration of the Carter admin-
istration. . 
It is true, as my colleague almost 
pointed out, that the Republican Sen­
ate voted for half of these deficit budg­
ets and the Democratic majority voted 
for six of them, but neither could do 
much about cutting the deficit sent 
over by Presidents Reagan and Bush. 
They did, however, Mr. President, 
make some cuts. The tables clearly 
show that over this period, the two 
Presidents requested more than Con­
gress voted to spend, and that fact 
ought to be known by the public. 
One of the hallmarks of these Reagan 
and Bush budgets is deceit and cover­
up, when the reserves of Social Secu­
rity have been wrongly spent and de­
ceitfully reported. 
Mr. President, the Reagan and Bush 
administrations cannot escape primary 
responsibility for the massive debt 
with which our children and grand­
children have been burdened. I thank 
the Chair and yield the floor. 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. What 
is the desire of the Senate? 
Mr. SANFORD. Mr. President, I sug­
gest the absence of a quorum. 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The 
point of no quorum having been made, 
the clerk will call the roll. 
The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 
Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I ask unan­
imous consent that the order for the 
quorum call be rescinded. 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. With­
out objection, it is so ordered. The Sen­
ator from Mississippi [Mr. LOTT] is rec­
ognized under the order for up to 20 
minutes. 
Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I am here 
today, because I believe we have a tre­
mendous problem which demands our 
attention now. Our budget system is a 
farce. There is a saying in this city 
that we quite often use, "If it ain't 
broke, don't fix it." But in this case I 
think our system is broke, and we need 
to do something about it. 
I have introduced legislation, S. 2317, 
the Budget Process Reform Act, that I 
believe will go a long way toward over­
hauling the process and putting some 
teeth back into it. In 1974, I voted for 
the Budget Impoundment Act, because 
I thought we needed some process, 
some system of adding up the numbers, 
we needed some teeth in it to try to 
control spending. I am not sure it ever 
really had any teeth, but over the 
years it has been ground down, and ba­
sically we are just gumming the proc­
ess now. So we want to put some teeth 
back into it. The American public is 
tired of Congress' fiscal irresponsibil­
ity. My constituents and people from 
all around the country, tell me time 
and time again the Congress must get 
the Federal budget deficit under con­
trol. The blank check policy has to 
stop. 
To avoid getting enveloped in an om­
nibus solution, one that would make an 
already musclebound system even 
more complicated, I think we should 
focus separately on the two fundamen­
tal components of the budget. The first 
is the process for development and im­
plementation of a budget, and the sec­
ond is the actual determination of the 
taxing and spending levels within that 
budget. 
The Congressional Budget and Im­
poundment Act of 1974 was intended to 
place all taxing and spending decisions 
within the overall context of a budget 
resolution. The resolution was to be 
adopted prior to consideration of 
spending or revenue bills. Although the 
intentions were good, the process has 
not worked. 
The bill I have introduced this week, 
S. 2317, identical to H.R. 298 introduced 
in the House by my friend Congress­
man CHRIS Cox who has done a lot of 
outstanding work in this area and has 
already been joined by over 130 cospon­
sors in the House from both parties. 
The bill addresses the first component, 
or the process. Everyone agrees that 
the present procedure by which Con­
gress is empowered to allocate our vast 
revenues is impossibly Byzantine, a 
maze randomly constructed which is 
stonewalling our ability to govern 
properly. It is a bureaucratic, extra­
legal system whose complexity and in­
comprehensibility shield it from effec­
tive scrutiny. The byproduct is an ex­
orbitant Federal budget deficit which 
has become the fundamental source of 
America's economic problems. 
But that does not mean we should re­
main hostage to this inefficient, hap­
hazard budget process. We must not 
throw our hands into the air and do 
nothing because there are few Senators 
standing in line to cut specific Federal 
programs or because decisions are too 
painful. It is a time for change, and 
that requires wiping the slate clean. 
People are demanding a complete 
refocus, not simply a tinkering with 
the cogs of the current machinery. 
This bill seeks to replace the broken 
down Congressional budget process in a 
simplistic, and efficient, businesslike 
manner. This law will provide an en­
forcement mechanism with legally 
binding timetables for adopting spend­
ing legislation. 
With this budget reform in place, we 
can then effectively administer the 
second component of budgeting, the re­
source allocation process, where and 
how much do we spend of the tax­
payers' money. We will have a struc­
ture designed to permit clear, rational, 
and accountable choices among com­
peting priori ties. 
This reform is based on accountabil­
ity and orderliness, the current lack of 
both have been duly noted by the 
American public. It ensures that nei­
ther Congress or the public is deceived; 
that last minute authorizations and 
appropriations are not just stuck in­
side fiscal legislation, and more impor­
tantly, that there is an ironclad agree­
ment in advance on a total budget dol­
lar figure to force Congress to live 
within its means, much like the rest of 
America. 
The bill has six key provisions: 
First, budget first, spend second. No 
authorization or appropriation bills 
can be considered until the budget is 
approved. 
Now, authorization committee mem­
bers, and certainly Appropriations 
Committee members, would say we 
cannot wait around on the budget proc­
ess all year. And quite often the budget 
is not approved when it is supposed to 
be. But this bill will address that prob­
lem. Budget first and spend second. 
Second, a 1-page, 19-function binding 
budget resolution, a legally binding 
joint resolution to be enacted by April 
15, focusing the budget decisions at a 
macro level-just the big numbers. Do 
not get into the line items of the budg­
et. And that is what has been happen­
ing over the years. The Budget Com­
mittee is encroaching on authorization 
and appropriations justifiable respon­
sibility. We ought agree on the totals 
for 19 main budget functional cat­
egories. This would simplify the proc­
ess and make the budget document one 
that lay men and women could under­
stand. 
Third, meet budget guidelines. A 
super majority will be needed to exceed 
spending ceilings set annually by the 
Congress. This will force Congress to 
spend only what they plan. Account­
ability becomes clear at this point. 
Fourth, enhanced rescission. The 
President would have the authority to 
rescind spending proposals exceeding 
the budget ceilings as scored by the 
Congressional Budget Office. 
It is important to note that there is 
a safeguard to prevent Congress from 
holding critically important programs 
which would easily get a two-thirds 

--- PDF PAGE 8 ---
4498 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
vote until late in the process: Deficit 
spending in any category would subject 
all spending legislation in that cat­
egory to a two-thirds vote. 
Fifth, pay-as-you-go supplement. 
Proposed spending increases must have 
offsets. 
Sixth, no baseline budgets. Start 
budgets with hard, actual numbers, not 
the current service level, or the prior 
year's numbers adjusted for inflation. 
This is the only place in the world 
that begins the budgeting process by 
saying OK, we are going to take last 
year's number, we are going to add cer­
tain other considerations, increase the 
number of people, adjust for inflation, 
and we will begin from that point. In 
other words, we increase the budget 
right at the start, and then we say well 
we may roll it back a percent or two 
and therefore we have cut the amount 
of spending increase. It makes no sense 
in the real world. 
I believe in this legislation because it 
requires action early in the process: It 
does get the President involved .. It is 
done in a macroway without getting 
into the details that really should be 
handled by the authorization and ap­
propriations committees. 
These proposed procedural changes 
would have the following effects: 
First, early consultation between the 
administration and Congress; 
Second, binding overall budget levels 
early in the planning process; 
Third, give both the President and 
Congress a voice in establishing spend­
ing priorities; 
Fourth, tie individual spending to 
overall budget totals; 
Fifth, require explicit decisions on 
spending beyond agreed levels; 
Sixth, provide a clear, understand­
able process; 
Seventh, avoid difficult questions of 
cons ti tutionali ty; 
Eighth, allow for a bias toward fiscal 
responsibility, unless Congress and the 
President choose otherwise; and 
Ninth, place the burden for fiscally 
responsible-but politically difficult-­
votes on the process, rather than the 
Members. 
This would help eliminate the pork 
in Federal spending. Projects would be 
evaluated on their merits, not on their 
ability to acquire votes. 
As we annually translate our Na­
tion's priorities into a Federal budget, 
we can use this new process to bot.h 
plan and discipline our spending while 
still achieving our goals. The final re­
sult is a meaningful budget which al­
lows Congress to focus on the effects of 
the bottom line on the economy and on 
the tradeoffs which must be made 
among priorities to control overall lev­
els of spending. 
Budget process reform is long over­
due. We now have the largest budget 
deficit in history, wasteful Government 
spending, and uncontrolled entitlement 
expenditures. Failure to produce a re-
sponsible balanced budget is the result 
largely of budget process which no 
longer meets our needs. 
I urge my colleagues to seriously 
consider the Budget Process Reform 
Act to avoid future carnivals of chaos. 
We have now 17 cosponsors of the bill 
in the Senate. We are hoping it is going 
to be seriously considered this year in 
a bipartisan way. I think it will be. I 
think we should focus on how we can 
improve the process. If we do not, there 
is going to be a move to just throw it 
out altogether and have no Budget 
Committee or budget process. I think 
that would be the height of irrespon­
sibility. Let us see if we cannot sim­
plify it and make it work. I urge my 
colleagues in the Senate to consider 
this legislation. 
Mr. President, so that others can 
speak who are waiting, I would now 
like to yield 5 minutes to the distin­
guished Senator from Iowa. 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The 
Senator from Iowa [Mr. GRASSLEY] is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 
Mr. GE.ASSLEY. Mr. President, I 
wish to join my colleague, the Senator 
from Mississippi [Mr. LOTT], in his call 
to action with respect to the Federal 
budget process. 
This institution, once deeply re­
spected and widely thought to house 
some of our Nation's greatest minds, 
has developed a serious credibility 
problem. 
The American people have lost all 
faith in our ability to act responsibly 
with the Nation's purse, and frankly, 
given the exploits of this body and our 
colleagues on the other side of the Cap­
i tol, they have good reason to doubt us. 
Week after week, month after month, 
and year after year, we have made new 
rules, changed old rules, circumvented 
other rules, and broken all of the rules. 
So while I admit to some degree of 
mixed emotion in suggesting that we 
further revise a process we have largely 
come to ignore, this proposal appeals 
to me because it strips away layers of 
political cover and forces us to work 
with real numbers and real time 
frames. 
It addresses the whole process, from 
the budget resoiution, through baseline 
development, the appropriations proc­
ess, each step up through the White 
House. 
Mr. President, as budget deficits 
begin to top $400 billion and the na­
tional debt reaches the $4 trillion 
mark, we have reached a defining mo­
ment for the U.S. Senate and for the 
Nation. 
Will we continue to accept business 
as usual, or will we stand up to the 
challenge? 
A month ago, President Bush chal­
lenged Congress to adopt an economic 
growth package, and between the two 
houses we have come up with nothing 
but political documents which are des­
tined for vetoes. 
A week ago, Senator McCAIN came to 
the floor with a proposal to give the 
President line-item, veto-like author­
ity, but we balked at that opportunity 
as well. 
The Senate Budget Committee is 
charged with the duty of developing a 
budget resolution before the end of this 
month, and so far we have not even 
begun to address that responsibility. 
In baseball, three strikes means you 
are out, and the Democrats in this 
body have seen three good pitches pass 
by without even bothering to take the 
bat off theii shoulders. 
My fell ow colleagues, our spring 
training is over, and it is time to be 
more aggressive. 
If we are serious about winning this 
budget game, we need to let someone 
step up to the plate who will take a few 
swings at the process, and I along with 
Senator LOTT and the other cosponsors 
of this legislation are prepared to do 
just that. 
Let's play ball. 
Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, how much 
time do I have remaining? 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The 
Senator from Mississippi has 11 min­
utes remaining. 
Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I yield 5 
minutes to the distinguished Senator 
from Colorado. 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The 
Senator from Colorado [Mr. BROWN] is 
recognized for 5 minutes. 
Mr. BROWN. I thank the Chair. I 
thank the distinguished Senator from 
Mississippi for his leadership in budget 
reform. It is very clear to every Amer­
ican that this Nation needs to reexam­
ine the way we have handled the Na­
tion's budget. 
Mr. President, a simple example. I 
have been in this Chamber and that of 
the House of Representatives for 11 
years now. In the last decade, every 
single year we have cut defense spend­
ing. That has been the rhetoric from 
both the House and the Senate, and it 
has been used on the public. And yet 
the public is shocked to find that even 
though we have cut defense spending 
every year, defense spending has dou­
bled, or more than doubled, in the last 
10 years. How do you do that? 
Well, it takes some creativity, and 
that is exactly what our budget process 
has in it. One might also call it fraud. 
The simple fact is that we set up an ar­
tificial, false base on which to make 
comparisons. Yes, we can claim defense 
spending cuts every year and double it 
within 10 years. But that is not honest 
and the American people know it. 
First of all, if we are going to change 
the budget process, we ought to be hon­
est, and that means that we abandon 
the current services-based budget and 
simply make references to the past 
based on what it was, not on some 
phony nonsensical comparison. So 
when we say we are increasing or de­
creasing the budget from year to year, 

--- PDF PAGE 9 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4499 
it ought to mean just that, that we are 
changing it up or down, not an artifi­
cial, phony budget. 
So the first principle of this budget 
bill is truth in budgeting. Second, we 
ought to live by the budget. Every 
American understands it. The simple 
fact is that we have not in the last 10 
years had a single year where we have 
kept spending within the budget. 
I am not here to hurl stones. Every 
Member of this body is subject to pres­
sures, but this Congress ignores its 
budget. This Budget Act is realistic. It 
says if we pass a budget we are going to 
live by it. To exceed the budget would 
require a two-thirds vote in the Cham­
ber . I believe we will come up with the 
discipline to make the budget process 
work if this budget bill passes. 
Third, in the past we put pressure on 
Congress by having appropriations sim­
ply stop, Social Security checks do not 
go out, and the defense of our country 
crumbles if we did not pass a new ap­
propriations bill. This resulted in a lot 
of appropriations that simply did not 
conform with the budget or did not, 
even worse, comply with any Budget 
Act at all. 
What this bill says is you will not 
fall off a cliff, if you do not act with re­
gard to appropriations. This bill would 
provide automatic continuing appro­
priations at last year's level. 
In other words, we do not close down 
hospitals, or jeopardize our defense, or 
eliminate Social Security checks, but 
we do keep the pressure on Congress to 
act. 
Mr. President , this bill introduced by 
Senator LOTT, is truth in budgeting. It 
will work. It will help bring things 
under control. Most importantly, Mr. 
President, I think it will restore the 
confidence of the American people in 
this body. 
Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I would 
like to ask the Senator from Colorado 
if he would remain for a moment and 
involve himself in a little dialog wit,h 
me. 
There are those that might say, you 
are trying to force the President into 
this process where he really does not 
belong. I would challenge anybody to 
think back and see if you can remem­
ber the last time a President's budget 
passed the Congress. And yet there 
were speeches made here in the Senate 
even this morning that said, oh , "the 
President caused the deficits." The 
President 's budgets never go anywhere; 
the President is not involved until 
there is some summit where 17 or so 
people get in the room and tell the rest 
of the world where we are going to 
spend money. 
In a final analysis, to quote the 
chairman of the Appropriations Com­
mittee, "it is the appropriations com­
mittees, and the budget committees, 
and the leadership that make the deci­
sions about where money is spent." 
Why, regardless of the party, would 
you want the President involved ear-
lier in this process? Does the Senator 
have a response? 
Mr. BROWN. The Congress is the one 
that appropriates the money. Not a 
penny is spent without the initiative of 
Congress and those items passed by 
Congress. 
But I for one think it is important to 
involve the President in this process 
early. He also is involved in signing or 
vetoing those appropriation bills. 
It is important to avoid the last­
minute summits out at Andrews Air 
Force Base. I do not know of a single 
Member of this body that is pleased 
with those midnight sessions out there 
that have come up with distorted budg­
et practices in the last few years. 
This bill is a way to make democracy 
work, not simply to resort to summits 
out at Andrews. 
Mr. LOTT. I certainly share that 
feeling. There are others who are going 
to say: "Why are you just tampering 
with the process?" I would remind 
them that we did not have a process at 
all until we passed the bill in 1974, and 
it has been changed several times, in­
cluding of course the Gramm-Rudman­
Hollings change that had some impact 
for a while. 
I think that in a bipartisan way there 
are a lot of Senators and Members of 
the House that would like to see this 
process improved. And I think it should 
be done now. 
I think we are reaching a point of 
frustration that is going to force some 
action. 
What does the Senator think about 
that as a member of the Budget Com­
mittee? 
Mr. BROWN. The Senator hits the 
nail on the head. Having served on both 
budget committees of the House and 
Senate , I for one think the record 
speaks clearly for itself. The deficit 
this year is $3,700 for every man, 
woman, and child in this country. The 
simple fact is our plans have not 
worked. 
Second, I think the item that is no­
ticeable is that every budget plan we 
have passed in the last decade has not 
been met; has not followed the guide­
lines. We have exceeded spending in 
every one of them. There is no question 
that the current process is broken. It 
does not work. It does not satisfy the 
needs of the American people. If we do 
nothing else, we ought to have a budg­
et process the American people can at 
least regard as honest. 
Mr. LOTT. Senator, it is said , and 
perhaps it is true in your State, al­
though I do not think it is in mine, 
that people are not really interested in 
the budget process, that it is some ar­
cane, inside Congress thing. What they 
really want is more spending on 
projects in their districts or States, or 
they want tax increases or tax cuts, de­
pending on your point of view, and that 
this budget process is just sort of a side 
issue nobody really cares about. 
Well, I can only remember one in­
stance in my State where somebody 
said: Increase taxes. Occasionally, I 
have people say they would like some 
tax relief, in certain areas, for instance 
capital gains; but, most of the time I 
have people ask me: "When are you 
people g~ing to get your act together 
on the budget and on deficit spending? 
It is going to come home to roost one 
of these days." They know it, but we do 
not seem to know it. 
Mr. BROWN. I must say the people of 
Colorado are not unlike the people of 
Mississippi. Whether Democrat or Re­
publican they expect us to change this 
and get-it in order. 
I think the experience that former 
Senator Tsongas is having on the cam­
paign trail for President, some of his 
success is in part a reflection of the 
fact that he has brought in to the de­
bate an inspired feeling that he is not 
talking turkey; that he is being 
straight with them. 
My belief is the American people are 
way ahead of Congress on this issue. 
They are willing to face up to hard 
choices. They are tired of the baloney. 
Mr. LOTT. There is one other impor­
tant point, which I did not touch on in 
my earlier comments about the Budget 
Process Reform Act. This bill would 
also prevent actual or threatened an­
nual shutdowns of the Federal Govern­
ment; there would be no sequester. In­
stead, there would be a process in place 
to allow an automatic reversion to the 
level of funding for the previous year 
until the new appropriations bill is 
passed. The spending could not exceed 
the functional ceiling established in 
the budget resolution for that fiscal 
year without a two-thirds vote. We 
would no longer have to go through 
these processes where we have a short­
term, CR, continuing resolution, 30 
days, or two weeks or whatever. It 
would be automatic so that people in 
the Government would know what to 
expect until the next bill was passed. 
Mr. BROWN. I must say I think this 
aspect of it is one of the better provi­
sions of the Senator 's bill. Legislators 
are faced with the choice of either vot­
ing for a bill that is bad, or facing an 
elimination of all Government serv­
ices, including defense, excluding the 
periods of national emergency, and the 
elimination of mailing Social Security 
checks. And faced with that fall off the 
cliff, in effect many legislators in these 
bodies have voted for appropriations 
bills that they knew were bad but were 
better than the alternative. 
This reform measure the Senator has 
introduced makes sure that kind of 
midnight emergency legislating does 
not happen. 
Mr. LOTT. I thank the Senator from 
Colorado for joining me this morning. I 
again urge colleagues to consider this 
proposal. 
I am willing to consider changes and 
improvements, and I think we will 

--- PDF PAGE 10 ---
4500 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
have some additional consideration 
and some dialog here on the floor of 
the Senate as the year goes along in 
this particular area. We need to have 
budget process reform. We need it now 
to avoid future carnivals of chaos that 
we see year after year in the budgeting 
process. 
Mr. President, how much time do I 
have remaining? 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The 
Senator has 50 seconds. 
Mr. LOTT. I yield my time. 
Mr. LEVIN addressed the Chair. 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The 
Senator from Michigan is recognized. 
EXTENSION OF MORNING BUSINESS 
Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I will need 
10 minutes reserved, and I ask unani­
mous consent that morning business be 
extended for 8 minutes beyond 11:30 so 
that I may utilize that time. 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Is 
there objection? Without objection, it 
is so ordered. 
The Senator from Michigan [Mr. 
LEVIN] is recognized for 10 minutes. 
Mr. LEVIN. I thank the Chair. 
TAX LEG ISLA TI ON 
Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, there are 
both encouraging and discouraging 
parts of the tax legislation just re­
ported out by the Senate Finance Com­
mittee. 
On the positive side, it is a much, 
much better bill than what was pro­
posed by President Bush in his budget 
submitted in January. By increasing 
taxes on the wealthiest 1 percent of the 
population, the Finance Committee 
bill restores a measure of tax fairness 
that was so damaged during the l.980's. 
By not resorting to accounting gim­
micks, the Finance Committee bill 
pays for itself and does it honestly. It 
does not put us any deeper into debt. 
That is the good news. 
But, I am afraid that the Finance 
Committee misses an opportunity to 
help put our economic house in order, 
by not using a significant part of the 
revenues from the tax increase on the 
wealthy to reduce the horrendous 
structural budget deficit. The Congres­
sional Budget Office [CBO] has recently 
reported that at the rate we are going, 
the budget deficit will still be more 
than $200 billion in 1997. According to 
CBO, deficits of that size will "cripple 
economic growth by reducing national 
savings and capital formation." 
That means a less prosperous econ­
omy in the future, less investment by 
business, fewer houses built, fewer cars 
sold. In a word, fewer good paying jobs. 
Deficit-neutral tax · legislation like 
that reported out by the Finance Com­
mittee does not address these growth­
threatening deficits. Just playing your 
opponent even when you are already 
far behind is not the way to win a ball 
game. It is also not the way to bring 
the deficit under control, when we are 
already at an annual minimum of $200 
billion in the hole. 
It is clear that the American public 
is concerned about tax fairness and 
wants us to get our economy moving 
and restore its long-term health. The 
tax proposal adopted by the Senate Fi­
nance Committee responds only par­
tially. It recognizes that upwards of 80 
percent of the American public wants 
to see the wealthiest 1 percent of the 
taxpayers, those who saw their income 
almost double during the 1980's, pay a 
fair share of the tax burden. But it is 
an illogical step to go from this essen­
tial element of tax fairness to the con­
clusion that the American public is 
pounding down the doors of Capitol 
Hill and asking us to use most of the 
new revenue from higher tax on the 
wealthy to pay for $400 tax cuts for 
middle-income taxpayers. 
A poll conducted for the Wall Street 
Journal-NBC late last year has already 
shown that when it came to using the 
peace dividend, the strongest support is 
for additional spending on programs 
such as health and education, with def­
icit reduction · second, and a tax cut in 
last place. 
However, it is clear from the way the 
debate has developed in the intervening 
months that the most relevant imme­
diate issue is how to use the revenue 
raised from increasing taxes on the 
wealthy; that the public wants us to 
answer that question by adopting mid­
dle-income tax cuts is an unarticulated 
major premise of the tax legislation 
approved by the Finance Committee. 
Based on new information that I have 
just obtained, the premise is a false 
one. Here is how the American people, 
to a polling question asked by Opinion 
Research Corp. of Princeton, NJ, re­
sponded: 
How should the revenue raised from 
increased taxes on people making more 
than $100,000 a year be used? 
The answer to that question: 44 per­
cent of the American people said in­
crease spending on domestic needs, 
such as health and education; 27 per­
cent said reduce the deficit; and only 22 
percent said give a $400 tax cut to mid­
dle-class families. 
This is a critically important point. 
Investing in our future and getting our 
economic house in order are higher pri­
orities among the public than a tax 
cut. 
That was a national poll of 1,000 peo­
ple taken · between February 27 and 
March 1. 
Polls should not govern our actions. 
The longrun interests of a great nation 
that intends to stay great should be 
what guides our decisions on compet­
ing policy alternatives. But, at a mini­
mum, we should avoid the folly of tak­
ing actions assuming they are popular 
if the public sentiment is in fact to the 
contrary. 
We should act to help our immediate 
economic situation and to address .our 
long-term economic health. We should 
not pass up that opportunity in ex­
change for a tax cut for about one­
third of our middle-income families, a 
tax cut that is talked about far more 
within the Washington beltway than it 
is chosen as an economic remedy out­
side. 
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con­
sent at this point that the question we 
commissioned Opinion Research Corp. 
of Princeton, NJ, to ask nationally of 
1,000 citizens, a cross-section of Ameri­
cans, be printed in the RECORD. 
There being no objection, the mate­
rial was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 
QUESTION 
If taxes were raised on individuals with in­
comes of Sl00,000 or more, which of the fol­
lowing would be the best way for the govern­
ment to use that additional money? 
Percent 
Increase spending on domestic needs, 
such as health and education ......... 44 
Reduce the federal budget deficit ...... 27 
Give a $400 tax cut to middle class 
families . . . . . .. . . . . .. .. . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . ... . 22 
None of the above/Don't know ........... 7 
Conducted through CARAVAN national 
telephone omnibus survey of 1006 randomly 
selected adults 18 years of age and over dur­
ing the period of February 27 through March 
1, 1992. 
Mr. LEVIN. Mr. President, I thank 
the Chair, and I yield the floor. 
I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The 
point of no quorum having been made, 
the clerk will call the roll. 
The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 
Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. With­
out objection, it is so ordered. 
Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I 
ask unanimous consent to speak as in 
morning business for 1 minute. 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Is 
there objection? 
Without objection, it is so ordered. 
The Senator from Minnesota is rec­
ognized for up to 1 minute. 
Mr. WELLSTONE. I thank the Chair. 
(The remarks of Mr. WELLSTONE per­
taining to the introduction of S. 2320 
are located in today's RECORD under 
"Statements on Introduced Bills and 
Joint Resolutions.") 
IRRESPONSIBLE CONGRESS? HERE 
IS TODAY'S BOXSCORE 
Mr. HELMS. Mr. President, the Fed­
eral debt run up by Congress stood at 
$3,830,561,049,317.97, as of the close of 
business on Tuesday, March 3, 1992. 
As anybody familiar with the U.S. 
Constitution knows, no President can 
spend a dime that has not first been 
authorized and appropriated by the 
Congress of the United States. 
During the past fiscal year, it cost 
the American taxpayers $286,022,000,000 

--- PDF PAGE 11 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4501 
just to pay the interest on spending ap­
proved by Congress-over and above 
what the Federal Government col­
lected in taxes and other income. Aver­
aged out, this amounts to $5.5 billion 
every week. 
What would America be like today if 
there had been a Congress that had the 
courage and the integrity to operate on 
a balanced budget? 
DICK THIGPEN'S WISDOM 
Mr. HELMS. Mr. President, I have a 
very special friend in North Carolina 
who has been an inspiration to me for 
at least four decades. His name is Rich­
ard E. Thigpen of Charlotte and he has 
bee'n a leader in our State in business, 
civic, and religious affairs-and in 
common sense. 
Being a graduate of what is now 
Duke University, Dick has played an 
enormous role in the growth of that 
fine institution. And, I might add, he is 
proud of Duke's No. 1 basketball team. 
I have at hand a letter that Mr. 
Thigpen wrote on February 17 to the 
editor of the Wall Street Journal. As I 
read it, it occurred to me that Senators 
and others would find it of interest. 
Therefore, Mr. President, I ask unan­
imous consent that the aforementioned 
letter be printed in the RECORD at the 
conclusion of my remarks. 
There being no objection, the letter 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 
EDITOR, 
The Wall Street Journal, 
New York, NY. 
CHARLOTTE, NC, 
February 17, 1992. 
DEAR SIR: "Selling Pessimism" is an apt 
heading for the review of "The Bankruptcy 
of America" on Page 14 of the Wall Street 
Journal on February 11, 1992. We need more 
optimism; we've recovered before and we will 
again. "We The People" can correct the 
angst that clouds the future. 
Whether we call the mess we are in a reces­
sion or a depression, we cannot push aside 
the problems of crime, greed, waste and poli­
tics as business as usual. There is enough 
culpability for all. Band-aid measures will 
not cure the ills of the nation. Strong medi­
cine is needed for survival. 
Mr. Cobb ended with an apposite state­
ment: 
"So save your money and pay off debts. 
Teach your children morality. And join the 
local PTA." 
The National Debt is now 3.6 Trillion Dol­
lars on which the annual interest is 304 Bil­
lion Dollars. I do not recall any substantial 
payment on the National Debt since Andrew 
Mellon was Secretary of the Treasury. 
Since our Declaration of Independence, we 
have coped with problems and moved on to 
the better life because the determined and 
dedicated people of the United States were 
willing to work and pay the price for free­
dom. "In God We Trust" is on our currency 
and coins; and "the eye of Providence" is on 
the Great Seal of the United States. 
Many corporations and individuals have 
taken drastic measures to become more effi­
cient and more profitable. The demands of 
good government for education, health, secu­
rity and world peace must be met. 
For too long we have tolerated the ever in­
creasing burden of debt. We must act to cut 
the cost of debt service and provide more 
funds for essential government services. Con­
gress and the Administration must cut the 
costs of government by 25 percent, must levy 
a gross income tax of 25 percent, must levy 
a surtax of 10 percent to reduce the National 
Debt. 
All of us must do whatever is necessary to 
keep the United States "the land of the free" 
and not become the land of debt. We must 
get off the fast track to bankruptcy. and get 
back on the straight path to prosperity, se­
curity and freedom. We will then be able to 
enjoy the full life in the greatest nation and 
help less fortunate people at home and 
abroad. 
Sincerely, 
RICHARD E. THIGPEN. 
AN END TO A CAMPAIGN 
Mr. FORD. Mr. President, I witnessed 
a statement today that probably was 
one of the hardest to give these days in 
the life of my friend and our distin­
guished colleague, the junior Senator 
from Nebraska [Mr. KERREY]. Senator 
KERREY had, as he said, given it his 
best shot. He had a message that was 
beginning to grow and very little 
money to carry him through the costly 
campaign of running for President. 
But in his remarks I think we could 
not only hear the desires of his people 
in Nebraska but we could grasp the 
feeling he had garnered in traveling 
across this great land of ours of the 
frustrations of the American people, of 
their desires, and hopes, and visions for 
the future. 
I am not sure the country is better 
off because he had to drop out today. I 
think he had a message which needed 
to be given. 
But I think the Senate may be a 
great deal better off because Senator 
KERREY is now back with us. He will 
bring to this Chamber that fire and 
that feeling he absorbed in campaign­
ing among the American people. I 
think he will be able to express in no 
uncertain terms what he gleaned in his 
almost 6 months of campaigning 
throughout the country. 
So I say to him, welcome back to the 
Senate. We look forward to working 
with him. We look forward to having 
his input in our decisionmaking proc­
ess. We look forward to extracting 
from him what the people feel is in 
their best interests. 
He said in his remarks this morning 
for us not to accept the frustration of 
the American people as bitterness but 
more of a desire to do better. As our 
main goal as a result of curtailing com­
munism around the world, we dedicate 
ourselves to better education for our 
children, that they leave school with a 
desire to use what they have learned; 
that we find a way for health care to be 
given to all our people; that we dedi­
cate ourselves from the military as­
pects, however keeping our country 
strong, to the manufacturing of prod-
ucts that will be the envy of the world, 
and people will want to buy from us, to 
stimulate the economy. 
And, yes, he talked about the crime 
bill and crime on our streets. 
So, Mr. President, I just wanted to 
take a few mo men ts to say to our dis­
tinguished colleague that here is one 
Senator that thinks he did a good job, 
and he had a message. Here is one Sen­
ator who looks forward to working 
with him in our effort to be a stronger 
body, a better institution, as it relates 
to the welfare of this great land of 
ours. 
So I thank my distinguished friend 
from Utah for giving me just a moment 
to say these things about a colleague 
that I say is a friend of mine and one 
who I respect and one whose voice · I be­
lieve will be heard in the next few 
months in this Chamber. 
I now yield the floor. 
Mr. HATCH addressed the Chair. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
Chair recognizes the Senator from 
Utah. 
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I would 
like to add a couple of follow-on com­
ments. 
I welcome our distinguished col­
league back as well. I commend him for 
being willing to throw his hat . into the 
ring, being willing to go out there any 
try-and he did try-hard for those 
months. I have to say that I felt he was 
going to do much better than he did. 
He is a very attractive personality 
with a lot of ability, and I think pre­
sented himself very, very well under 
the circumstances. I have to have re­
spect for anybody who is willing to get 
in and do the best he can. 
So I welcome him back as well. 
I appreciate the remarks from the 
distinguished majority whip. 
JUDGE ROGER WOLLMAN 
Mr. PRESSLER. Mr. President, on 
March 4, 1992, the Senate received the 
President's nomination of Judge Roger 
L. Wollman of the U.S. Eighth Circuit 
Court of Appeals to serve on the U.S. 
Sentencing Commission. I commend 
the President for making this most 
outstanding nomination. 
South Dakotans are very proud of 
Judge Wollman. We were proud of him 
when he served as Chief Justice of the 
South Dakota Supreme Court. We were 
even more proud when President 
Reagan elevated him to the U.S. Court 
of Appeals in 1985. 
Judge Wollman was the first South 
Dakotan to serve on the Eighth Circuit 
Court of Appeals in 25 years. It was my 
honor to recommend Judge Wollman's 
appointment to the U.S. Court of Ap­
peals, as well as the U.S. Sentencing 
Commission. 
Mr. President, Judge Roger Wollman 
is one of the finest public servants in 
the Nation. He is a brilliant, intel­
ligent man who has given great service 

--- PDF PAGE 12 ---
4502 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
to the State of South Dakota and the 
people of the United States. A skilled 
and able jurist, Judge Wollman has 
been an inspiration to the legal profes­
sion. 
Those who have the pleasure of 
knowing Judge Wollman, or who have 
appeared before him in court, often 
have remarked to me how fortunate we 
are to have Judge Wollman in public 
service. Blessed we would be if more 
people like Judge Wollman were will­
ing to dedicate themselves to a career 
of public service. 
Mr. President, I urge the Senate to 
confirm this nomination at the earliest 
opportunity. I ask unanimous consent 
that an article about Judge Wollman's 
nomination to the U.S. Sentencing 
Commission, which appeared in the 
March 4, 1992, edition of the Rapid City 
Journal, be printed in the RECORD. 
There being no objection, the article 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 
JUDGE WOLLMAN NOMINATED 
WASHINGTON.-President Bush has nomi­
nated Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals Judge 
Roger Wollman of South Dakota to the U.S. 
·Sentencing Commission. 
Wollman, who was recommended to the 
commission by Sen. Larry Pressler, R-S.D ., 
will serve a six-year term if confirmed by the 
Senate . The commission was created by Con­
gress in 1984 to establish sentencing policies 
and guidelines for the federal criminal jus­
tice system. 
The commission's seven voting members 
are appointed by the president and confirmed 
by the Senate. 
Wollman will continue to sit as one of 10 
judges on the appeals court in St. Louis , Mo. 
Pressler had recommended Wollman for 
the appeals court to then-President Ronald 
Reagan. Wollman was confirmed July 19, 
1985, and is the first South Dakotan to serve 
on the court in 25 years. 
CONCLUSION OF MORNING 
BUSINESS 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Morn­
ing business is closed. 
OMNIBUS CRIME CONTROL ACT­
CONFERENCE REPORT 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. Under 
the order, the Senate will resume con­
sideration of the conference report ac­
companying H.R. 3371. The clerk will 
report . . 
The legislative clerk read as follows: 
The conference report to accompany R.R. 
3371, an act to control and prevent crime. 
The Senate resumed consideration of 
the conference report . 
Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I observe a 
quorum is not present. 
The PRESIDENT pro tempore. The 
Chair will state that if no Senator 
seeks recognition, it is the duty of the 
Chair, under the rules, to state the 
question. 
The Senator from Mississippi sug­
gests the absence of a quorum. The 
clerk will call the roll. 
The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 
Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I ask unan­
imous consent that the order for the 
quorum call be rescinded. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
KOHL). The Senator from Mississippi 
[Mr. LOT!']. 
Mr. LOTT. Mr. President, I rise in op­
position to the crime conference re­
port. In many respects, I think it 
would be better labeled "criminal 
rights protection conference report." It 
is not all bad. Some features of it are 
good. 
The point was made in the debate 
yesterday. how could you oppose this 
conference report because it does have 
so many new crimes that are included? 
It does have some good provisions 
in it. 
But the point is, on the fundamen­
tals, on the big questions, it is weak: In 
habeas corpus, exclusionary rule, and 
on the death penalty. 
Mr. President, we talk about Su­
preme Court decisions, legal niceties, 
lawyer arguments that you hear in the 
debate here on the floor of the Senate. 
All that is necessary, and all that is 
fine. But the question is, What do the 
people out there in the real world 
think about crime in this country, and 
what is being done or what is not being 
done? Frankly, they are horrified. 
They think a lot more should be done. 
They do not understand why local 
law enforcement people do not have 
more tools to do their job. They do not 
understand how, when they arrest peo­
ple, they are back on the street the 
next day or the next week. 
They do not understand how, when 
people are convicted of heinous crimes, 
or murder, that they go to prison, but 
because of Federal court decisions they 
do not go out and work on the high­
ways and byways, like they used to do. 
They do not raise crops. In some in­
stances, they are told that you cannot 
put more than one prisoner in a cell. 
The American people do not under­
stand all this coddling of prisoners that 
has been going on in America for the 
past 30 years. They think lawmakers 
are to blame. They think the laws are 
to blame. They think the courts are to 
blame. They blame the judges. And 
there is no question in my mind that 
for 25 or 30 years we have had permis­
sive judges who interpreted the laws 
that we passed-perhaps correctly-but 
they seemed to be more worried about 
the criminal and the rights of the 
criminal than about the victim, or 
about society. 
Before I came to this city several 
years ago I had the experience of being 
a public defender for a brief period of 
time in my hometown, my home coun­
ty of Jackson County. Before that, I 
just basically had done some county 
court work in domestic relations. I 
really had not been in the criminal 
law. But when I got into it, defending 
those who were charged, I was shocked 
at how much of the burden of the law 
is on the prosecutor. 
I found it was very easy for me to do 
my job as the public defender. And I 
looked at the DA almost in 
bemusement, because he had all these 
technical requirements that had been 
put on him and on law enforcement 
people. You have to do this. You have 
to meet this technicality. If you do 
not, the whole thing is thrown out; this 
was in 1967 and 1968. Let me tell you, it 
got worse after that. 
The common man and woman does 
not want to blame anybody. They just 
want somebody to do something, 
whether it is the attorney general of 
the State, the Attorney General of the 
United States, or the Congress. This 
conference report does not do enough. 
I have heard a lot of discussion back 
and forth about the niceties in the con­
ference report, what is in it and what is 
not in it. I see a lot of things that are 
not in it that I think should be. Maybe 
I misunderstand it. But let me go 
through some of the things I under­
stand are not in this bill, or are in this 
bill. 
I also want to emphasize, once again, 
that for years Congress did not mind 
when the Supreme Court made it easier 
for the criminal and tougher on the 
victim and society. But when we fi­
nally get a Federal court system and a 
Supreme Court that starts making 
what I consider to be the right deci­
sions-and let me tell you, what the 
majority of the American people think 
are the right decisions-then all of a 
sudden; oh, no, that is not good. 
This conference report, as I under­
stand it, would overturn at least 14 
major Supreme Court decisions that fi­
nally have been dealing with frivolous 
appeals and endless litigation, not only 
in death penalty but other areas. So 
now, when we get a Supreme Court 
that is doing some good things; oh, no, 
we do not like it. 
But before I read this list, I want to 
commend the distinguished Senator 
from Delaware, who will be speaking, I 
am sure, later on today on the con­
ference report, urging we go ahead and 
pass it. I think he worked hard. He 
worked in good faith. I watched him 
put in long hours last year to hammer 
together, cobble together what I think 
was a pretty good crime bill. 
Of course, he was aided a:id nudged 
and pushed by the distinguished leader 
on the Judiciary Committee, the Sen­
ator from South Carolina. These two 
men-maybe coming in many instances 
from divergent viewpoints-came to­
gether. And we had a bill, a crime bill, 
that I voted for. I got some criticism 
on both sides: You should not have 
voted for it because it had some gun 
provisions in there; or: You should not 
have voted for it because it was not 
strong enough. 
But, basically, it was a big step in 
the right direction. Even the House, 

--- PDF PAGE 13 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4503 
passed a fairly good bill. It was not 
nearly as good as the Senate bill, but it 
had some very good provisions. 
And then what happened? It went 
into the deep dark hole of the con­
ference. I know the House Judiciary 
Committee. I served on the House Judi­
ciary Committee. Let me tell you, I 
know from where they are coming. 
They do not want the death penalty. 
They do not want to get some limits on 
habeas corpus. They do not want good­
faith evidence to be admitted if there 
is a technical pro bl em. They are wor­
ried more about the criminals' rights 
and society's and victims' rights. 
I have seen them, time and time 
again. I know their past record. I know 
their voting record. I know them indi­
vidually and I know what happened. 
When Senator BIDEN of Delaware and 
Senator THURMOND of South Carolina 
got into the conference, these House 
conferees would not even support, in 
some instances, their own House posi­
tion. They wanted to weaken the House 
position even further. So that con­
ferees approved this so-called crime 
conference report, that is estimated to 
cost $3 billion. And I do not object to 
that, to authorizing money to do the 
job that has to be done. 
We are going to have to put our 
money on the line if we are going to 
deal with crime in this country. We 
have to do it up and down the board. 
We have to help local law enforcement 
people, policemen on the street. We 
have to help with more funds for DEA. 
And I am prepared to do that. 
I want to take that money from 
somewhere else in Federal spending. I 
think crime is a place where we should 
concentrate. But this bill, authorizing 
$3 billion for very weak crime provi­
sions, was passed on a Sunday night, 
November 24, 1991. The crime bill had 
dragged through the Senate and then 
the House, for almost a year and then 
·at the end of the session, November 24, 
1991, it passed on a straight party line 
vote. There were some conferees in 
that room that have prosecutor back­
grounds, p~ople who are very strong on 
law enforcement, people who have 
worked on this subject for years and 
years. But, there is something funny 
about it when it happens on a Sunday 
night just before we are going out of 
· session for the year on a straight party 
line vote. That is not the way you pass 
a crime bill. 
But, we can fix that. There is some 
good stuff in this conference report, 
but there is not sufficient language in 
here on the fundamentals of habeas 
corpus, the death penalty, or the exclu­
sionary rule, and we need to get to­
gether. We need to do it now. How 
much more do we have to tolerate be­
fore we act? It is not just recent 
shootings on Capitol Hill. I was horri­
fied when there was a drive-by shooting 
of a lady in Northeast Washington, she 
and her husband were just driving 
along, and she was shot. I was horrified 
by what is happening in my own State, 
my State's capital, Jackson, MS; 
Greenville, MS; Moss Point, MS. It is 
all over America, and the people want 
something done. 
The Thurmond crime bill will do the 
job the way it needs to be done. I think 
the problem in getting it done is the 
House and the conference, but we have 
to deal with that. I urge the leadership 
of the judiciary committee and the 
leadership of the Senate to find a 
forum to make this happen. 
Let me tell you what is not in this 
conference report, some of the things 
that really bother me. The conference 
bill rejects the central reform passed 
by the Senate, which recommended 
that habeas filings in capital cases be 
limited to new claims which have not 
been fully and fairly litigated in State 
courts. As I noted earlier, · it overturns 
at least 14 Supreme Court cases that 
limit frivolous appeals and endless liti­
gation in death penalty cases and al­
lows the filing of second or successive 
petitions for habeas relief when a death 
penalty inmate simply wants to chal­
lenge the validity of his sentence but 
does not dispute his guilt. 
This conference report sets no time 
limit at all on habeas corpus filings by 
prisoners in noncapital cases and al­
lows prisoners under sentence of death 
to delay a full year before applying for 
Federal habeas corpus. The time limit 
in the conference report is double the 
180-day limit endorsed by the Senate in 
title XI of S.· 1241 or even by the House 
of Representatives in H.R. 5269. The 
conference report sets a time limit 
that is double the limit that was in ei­
ther House. Where does this new limit 
come from? 
Under the conference report, the 
courts are barred from appointing 
counsel in capital cases in all States. 
The courts are barred. Only def ender 
organizations and comparable entities 
could appoint lawyers. Why? Is the 
court not competent to do that? Why 
do you put it over into the special in­
terest area of defender organizations or · 
similar entities? And imposes also 
counsel qualification standards for 
State capital cases which greatly ex­
ceed those that Congress has enacted 
for Federal capital cases. 
In cases of substantial · noncompli­
ance with these new requirements, or 
with any performance standards in­
vented by the appointing authority, all 
existing limits on raising claims that 
were not presented to the State courts 
would be waived. 
The conference version will result in 
new claims of alleged technical defects 
in capital sentencing leading to second, 
third, fourth, and even subsequent Fed­
eral habeas corpus petitions and will 
even result in prisoners relitigating 
claims that have been rejected in ear­
lier Federal habeas corpus petitions. 
There was a lot of talk yesterday 
about how this police organization or 
that law enforcement organization sup­
ported the conference report that we 
are considering. It is interesting to me 
that the top law enforcement people in 
the States , the attorneys general, op­
pose the conference report; 31-16 Re­
publican, 15 Democrat-State attor­
neys general wrote the President ex­
pressing their alarm at the habeas cor­
pus provisions contained in the House­
passed bill and urged the President to 
veto any legislation containing these 
provisions. 
With regard to the death penalty, al­
though this legislation authorizes the 
death penalty in some 50 Federal of­
fenses, the trial procedures create new 
rights for defendants which would vir­
tually ensure the death penalty would 
never really be imposed. This legisla­
tion provides for the death penalty in 
50 instances, but it sets up mechanisms 
that make it impossible to implement. 
The Senate passed a bill that makes 
firearm murders a Federal crime pun­
ishable by death. Why? Because if you 
want to do something about firearms 
being used in crimes, this is a way to 
do it. You have to exact a real punish­
ment that is enforced. The conference 
report deletes a provision to allow the 
death penalty for drug-related killings 
in the District of Columbia-not just 
killings, drug-related killings. The con­
ference report rejects the rule approved 
in Blystone versus Pennsylvania and 
Bovde versus California under which 
jurors are instructed to impose the 
death penalty if they conclude that the 
aggravating factors in the case out­
weigh the mitigating factors. Instead, 
it provides that jurors . need never im­
pose the death penalty regardless of 
their findings concerning aggravating 
and mitigating factors. 
With regard to the exclusionary rule, 
the Senator from South Carolina [Mr. 
THURMOND] said the conference agree­
ment substantially narrows the good­
faith exception to the exclusionary 
rule and will result in a significant ex­
pansion of criminals' rights to chal­
lenge the admissibility of incriminat­
ing evidence used against them. 
The conference report rejects the 
proposal contained even in the House 
bill, weak as it was in many respects. 
The report adopts instead a provision 
which codifies the existing good-faith 
exception for searches involving war­
rants that the Supreme Court adopted 
in United States versus Leon. Such a 
provision provides little reform in this 
area, and it is pointless since Leon is 
already the law. Moreover, the con­
ference bill provision is not an accu­
rate codification of Leon and would re­
quire the exclusion of more evidence 
than the existing rules. 
The conference report, in another 
area-just so you will understand it is 
not just the exclusionary rule, death 
penalty, or the habeas corpus argu­
ment, it is in other area&--the con­
ference report removes numerous man-

--- PDF PAGE 14 ---
4504 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
datory minimum penal ties for firearm 
offenses, other violent crimes, and drug 
offenses. 
Why? Why would we be removing 
minimum penalties for firearm of­
fenses? Whose idea was it to drop that? 
Nobody that I can think of would want 
to drop that. The conference report re­
quires that Federal prisoners be given 
drug treatment on demand and reduces 
the sentences of violent criminals upon 
completion. That is incomprehensible. 
Let me just read now what Attorney 
General William P. Barr wrote with re­
gard to the conference report on No­
vember 25, 1991. That is the Monday 
after the night passage of the bill on 
Sunday: · 
DEAR MR. MINORITY LEADER: I join men 
and women of law enforcement around the 
country and victims of crime in voicing my 
strenuous objections to the so-called "crime 
bill " reported by the House and Senate con­
ferees this weekend . While law enforcement 
groups and victims of violent crime cry out 
for the Congress to move forward aggres­
sively on criminal justice reform, the con­
ferees now propose that we take a significant 
step backwards. The proposed legislation ac­
tually overrules several recent Supreme 
Court decisions favorable to law enforce­
ment . This conference report does more for 
those convicted of crimes than it does for 
those victimized by them. 
The American people know that our crimi­
nal justice system is failing because con­
victed criminals are able to escape just pun­
ishment through endless delays and repet­
itive technical legal maneuvering . This 
abuse has deprived our criminal justice sys­
tem of any finality: convicted criminals can 
perpetually reopen and relitigate their cases 
even when their appeals have been completed 
and when there is no question as to their 
guilt . The guilty thus avoid punishment by 
filing frivolous habeas corpus petitions that 
drag on for years , consume valuable law en­
forcement resources , and reopen the wounds 
of victims and survivors. State law enforce­
ment agencies demand relief. And yet , the 
conferees now propose that we actually cre­
ate broad new avenues and new loopholes by 
which convicted criminals can exploit the 
system and evade punishment. The conferees 
propose to make the current situation worse 
by: 1) overruling certain reasonable limita­
tions recently established by the Supreme 
Court on successive habeas corpus petitions; 
2) imposing substantial costs on the states to 
fund these frivolous challenges while offer­
ing no prospect of finality and no relief to 
their already overburdened systems; and 3) 
offering criminals wider opportunities for 
continued frivolous delays than are allowed 
even under existing law . 
The conferees also propose to step back­
wards on reasonable reform of the exclusion­
ary rule. By rolling back court decisions 
which allow for the admissibility of evidence 
when police have acted in good faith , the 
conference report will handcuff police and 
increase the number of criminals who escape 
justice on legal technicalities . 
Finally, in authorizing $3 billion for law 
enforcement programs, the bill offers only a 
mirage. Authorization of this funding when 
there is no appropriation is essentially 
meaningless. The irony here is that the Con­
gress failed this year to fully fund the Presi ­
dent's budget request for law enforcement , 
slashing it by $472 million-a 64% cut in the 
increases sought by the President . Dangling 
the empty promise of more grant programs 
before the eyes of state law enforcement can­
not camouflage a weak crime bill. 
In sum. the conferees have let down law 
enforcement, let down victims, and let down 
those in Congress who voted for tough 
anticrime measures. This " whirlwind week­
end conference" cannot obscure the fact that 
the Congress has again failed to deliver on 
serious criminal law reform. If this bill 
comes to the President's desk, I will urge 
him to veto it. 
This is a very strong letter. I do not 
even agree with the part about the 
funds. Maybe it is a mirage . Maybe 
there will never be appropriations. It is 
a fact that Congress many times does 
not fund the President's request for 
law enforcement, but I think we are 
going to have to put our money where 
our mouths are in this particular case. 
Finally, time and again yesterday I 
heard Presidential politics or partisan­
ship being mentioned. Tell that to 
Jack Russ, the Sergeant at Arms of the 
House, a Democrat. Tell that to the 
family of Tom Barnes , an aide to Sen­
ator SHELBY who was murdered 
inexplicably-by being shot in the head 
from behind. Tell it to his family. A 
Democrat. Tell it to so many of the 
people in this city being killed, so 
many people in my State being killed. 
They are not Democrat or Republican, 
really. They are victims. They are peo­
ple whose lives are at risk, who are 
scared to go out of their homes. 
What is happening in the streets of 
this city is indefensible . Maybe we are 
guilty. Maybe some of our own had to 
be affected before we would take ac­
tion, but I have been worrying about it 
and complaining about it for months 
and for years. 
This is not Presidential politics. This 
is an urgent matter, a crisis in our Na­
tion's Capital and in our Nation as a 
whole and we need to address it now . 
The bill that was introduced by the dis­
tinguished Senator from South Caro­
lina was done at his initiative after 
trying to work across the aisle, work­
ing with other Senators, working with 
the Attorney General. This bill was in­
troduced to try to break this deadlock. 
We need to do something . 
As far as partisan politics, it should 
not be. There should not have been a 
party-line vote on that conference re­
port . We should stop this now. If you 
want to vote on the conference report, 
fine . I am not voting for this . I am not 
voting for a show and tell. I am going 
to vote for something that is real and 
is tough on criminals in this country. 
We need to say to Senator BIDEN and 
Senator THURMOND, go back and try 
again. Do something more on these re­
peated appeals and on trying to help 
the law enforcement people do their 
jobs; on the death penalty; on firearms, 
some of these things that were dropped 
from conference on firearms. I have 
never been able to imagine whose idea 
that was. 
So it is not Presidential politics from 
the Senator's standpoint , and it is not 
partisan politics. I know there are tons 
of Democrats and Republicans in the 
Congress and all across America who 
say enough already. Let us do this job. 
Let us worry about the law-abiding 
citizens who are being raped, maimed, 
and murdered in America and quit 
shuffling around trying to find some 
additional way to comfort criminals 
who are convicted and encouraging 
them to avoid the swift punishment 
they deserve and that the American 
people demand. 
Mr. President, I yield the floor. 
Mr. CRANSTON addressed the Chair. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
Chair recognizes the Senator from 
California. 
U.S. SECURITY 
Mr. CRANSTON. Mr. President, the 
collapse of the Soviet empire has fun­
damentally changed the nature of the 
security threat to the United States. 
In the place of an ideologically hos­
tile superpower bristling with weapons 
of mass destruction, the new threat to 
American interests comes from a range 
of international criminal activities. 
Terrorism, narcotics, and money­
laundering, Mafia-like international 
cartels, and the proliferation of weap­
ons of mass destruction and weapons 
technologies have replaced communism 
as the principal foreign threat to our 
way of life. 
At the same time, the global march 
to democracy is still impeded or 
blocked in many countries by oversized 
military establishments whose main 
role is one of internal security-the 
persecution of internal enemies-rath­
er than national defense. 
The subordination of local police 
forces to the military in many of these 
countries virtually ensures two un­
happy results. 
The police become demoralized and 
professionally frustrated because their 
institutions are run by men who may 
also be in uniform, but who cannot 
really speak their language. 
And the military inevitably become 
politicized given their hegemonic par­
ticipation in internal security-a role 
we have wisely prohibited our own 
military here in the United States. 
United States efforts to strengthen 
the administration of justice can help 
to promote the demilitarization of so­
cieties whose armed forces often con­
stitute-even in countries such as Ven­
ezuela, with more than three decades of 
democratic experience-the greatest 
threat to democracy. 
The failure of host country law en­
forcement discourages needed inter­
national investment, as foreign cor­
porations face concerns of physical se­
curity and the ability to enforce con­
tracts. 
Mr. President, despite this important 
challenge, U.S. efforts to strengthen 
international law enforcement efforts 

--- PDF PAGE 15 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4505 
are woefully underfunded-particularly 
when compared to U.S. military assist­
ance programs. They lack a coherent 
rationale and strategy, and are badly 
mismanaged. 
Mr. President, these conclusions can 
be drawn after a careful reading of a 
GAO report, "Foreign Aid: Police 
Training and Assistance," which my 
office is releasing today. 
The report provides an in-depth re­
view of the training and assistance 
given to foreign law enforcement agen­
cies and personnel. It focuses on three 
main issues: the legislative authority 
for training and assistance, the extent 
of U.S. activities, and experts' opinions 
on the management of these programs. 
The GAO report should be a bucket of 
cold water on any illusions that U.S. 
security policy is up to the task of pro­
moting American security interests in 
the post-cold-war era. Among the 
GAO's most important findings: 
Despite legislation-section 660 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act-passed by 
Congress in 1974, designed to stop U.S. 
aid to foreign police committing mas­
sive rights abuses, there are a dozen ex­
emptions that have been granted to 
allow some U.S. training and assist­
ance of foreign police, thereby calling 
into question why section 660 remains 
on the books. 
In fiscal 1990, five U.S. cabinet level 
departments trained and assisted po­
lice from 125 countries at a cost of ap­
proximately $117 million. In 46 coun­
tries two or more U.S. programs are 
operating. 
Experts consulted expressed concern 
about the lack of guidance and coordi­
nation of U.S. police assistance activi­
ties. These concerns included the lack 
of a clear position on the role of police 
aid in new and emerging democracies, 
an absence of clearly defined program 
objectives and authorities, and a deter­
mination of how individual training ef­
forts contribute to overall U.S. inter­
ests. 
The administration was even unable 
to offer data on the exact extent or 
cost of assistance to foreign police. 
Nobody knows exactly what we are 
doing; exactly what we are spending . 
Mr. President, these findings call 
into question the entire cast of U.S. se­
curity assistance efforts. 
Clearly, programs without clearly de­
fined program objectives and authori­
ties cannot provide the best assistance 
to foreign legal authorities. 
The very dispersion of U.S. efforts­
spread out among no less than five 
Cabinet-level departments-means that 
needed coordination in this increas­
ingly complex arena is a very ad hoc 
sort of thing. 
It is also clear that the section 660 
provision of the Foreign Assistance 
Act , prohibiting police aid, has become 
a virtual Swiss cheese of exemptions, 
and its only real value appears to be as 
a brake on Department of Defense ef-
forts to hold onto its budget by getting 
into law enforcement. 
As one of those who fought-and 
would do so again if conditions did not 
change-to get such a restriction in 
place in the bad old days of the cold 
war, I can say that section 660 no 
longer serves its purposes and issues it 
addressed then cry out to be dealt with 
in a more affirmative way. 
Liberals and conservatives alike have 
to rethink old dogmas in this field, and 
work together to craft programs which 
meet American security needs and pro­
mote democratization. 
Mr. President, the report comes as 
part of a larger request made by my of­
fice, and those of the Senator from In­
diana [Mr. LUGAR], the Senator from 
New York [Mr. MOYNIHAN], the Senator 
from Washington [Mr. ADAMS], and the 
Senator from South Dakota [Mr. 
DASCHLE]. 
The findings of this first study show 
that old orthodoxies in the security 
field are not only irrelevant, they are 
helping to leave the United States 
without the tools to promote inter­
national law enforcement and global 
demilitarization. · 
Mr. President, as the GAO notes, 
while U.S. aid to foreign police forces 
began in the 1950's, it was greatly ex­
panded in the early 1960's, as concerns 
grew among U.S. policymakers about 
rising levels of Communist insurgent 
activity in the developing world. 
Channelled mostly through the AID 
Office of Public Safety, by 1968 we were 
spending $60 million annually to train 
police in 34 countries. With the expan­
sion of such assistance came accusa ­
tions that the programs turned a blind 
eye , or worse, to violation of human 
rights, such as torture and summary 
execution, by recipient security forces. 
"Hidden Terrors," a well-documented 
book on U.S. police training efforts in 
Latin America by former New York 
Times Saigon bureau chief A.J. 
Langguth, provided a searing indict­
ment of these programs and the men 
who ran them. In 1979, the New York 
Times quoted Jesse J. Leaf, a former 
chief CIA analyst in Iran, as saying 
that CIA training of the Shah's SAVAK 
secret police was "based on German 
torture techniques from World War II." 
Mr. President, careful analysis of 
that period suggests that there were 
six major flaws in U.S. training. 
First, training was provided to so­
called friendly anti-Communist re­
gimes, without regard to whether they 
were dictatorships or not. 
Second, law enforcement efforts were 
subordinated to U.S. counterinsur­
gency goals. As the GAO noted, U.S. 
training included such topics as 
counterinsurgency techniques, weapons 
use, and Communist ideology. This also 
meant, in practice, reinforcing the con­
trol of recipient countries' militaries 
over the police. 
Third, and this is clearly borne out in 
the Langguth book, U.S. trainers were 
not always the best America had to 
offer. 
Fourth, U.S. intelligence agencies 
were given an important role in the de­
velopment and execution of these pro­
grams. 
Fifth, police training was not placed 
in the broader context of administra­
tion of justice, with its emphasis on ju­
dicial and prison reform. 
And, finally, human rights was rarely 
a factor in policy considerations at the 
time. 
Spurred by reports that United 
States trained and equipped police in 
Iran, Vietnam, Brazil, and other coun­
tries were involved in torture, murder, 
and the suppression of legitimate polit­
ical activity, I and others in Congress 
prevailed and we banned foreign aid to 
police forces in 1974. 
This ban remained virtually ironclad 
until 1985, when Congress authorized 
the President to support "programs to 
enhance investigative capabilities con­
ducted under judicial or prosecutorial 
control" in functioning democracies in 
the Western hemisphere. 
As a result, the Department of Jus­
tice-together with the State Depart­
ment and the Agency for International 
Development-established the Inter­
national Criminal Investigative Train­
ing Assistance Program [!CIT AP]. 
Operational responsibility was left en­
tirely to !CIT AP under the supervision 
of officials in the Deputy Attorney 
General's office, with policy guidance 
provided by the Department of State. 
With an annual budget of less than $8 
million, !CIT AP has trained thousands 
of police, judges, prosecutors, and 
other criminal justice personnel from 
17 Caribbean island states, 6 Central 
American nations, as well as Bolivia, 
Colombia, Peru, and Uruguay. It is im­
portant to point out that, under the di­
rection of David "Kris" Kriskovitch, a 
former FBI special agent, ICITAP has 
steered clear of any hint of the kind of 
problems that plagued the old AID Of­
fice of Public Safety. 
Many observers credit ICITAP with 
spreading a consciousness of the need 
for civilianized law enforcement in new 
and emerging democracies in the re­
gion, and the recently agreed-to Salva­
doran peace treaty-with its emphasis 
on the role of a civilianized police force 
in internal security-is proof of the 
soundness of this approach. 
Unfortunately, the ICITAP Program 
remains underfunded, overextended, 
and relegated to playing only a re­
gional role. As we see from the GAO re­
port, it may provide the only bright 
spot in an area characterized by admin­
istration ineptness and neglect. 
Mr. President, Will Rogers once re­
marked that Americans are great at 
winning wars, but less successful at 
keeping the peace. Our winning of the 
cold war has given us an important op­
portuni ty to help mankind live in free 
societies under the rule of law. Demo-

--- PDF PAGE 16 ---
4506 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
cratic governments are natural allies 
of the United States and free market 
systems cannot exist unless there are 
judicial authorities that enforce its 
rules. 
For all the money spent and all the 
sacrifices made during more than four 
decades of cold war, the Bush adminis­
tration has failed to export an institu­
tion which lies at the very heart of our 
success as a democracy-our system of 
justice. 
The new democracies of the world 
need our expertise and our help in 
learning how to enforce the rule of law 
through the professionalization of po­
lice departments, prosecutors' offices, 
the courts system and the prisons. In 
helping them establish law enforce­
ment and judicial infrastructures, we 
give them the tools to help them rid 
their societies of oppression and the 
virus of militarism . 
Whether the issue is the promotion of 
community-police dialog in South Afri­
ca's transition to multiracial democ­
racy or the establishment of a civilian­
run police force in war-torn El Sal­
vador, people from those countries look 
to the United States for leadership, 
models, and technical assistance. 
The relatively small number of rene­
gade or outlaw nations-those engaged 
in terrorism, drug smuggling or weap­
ons proliferation-in the world means 
that United States and multilateral ef­
forts in international law enforcement 
can give a big bang for a relatively 
small buck. 
In doing so, we can also help provide 
for American security interests in a 
world which has seen a quantum leap 
in the internationalization of crime. 
Sophisticated international crime is 
far outpacing the ability of new democ­
racies whose law enforcement institu­
tions are weak, inexperienced, and al­
ready overextended by the struggle 
against ordinary crime. 
One of the fastest-growing crime syn­
dicates in the United States is a Rus­
sian-controlled organization whose 
local chiefs are expatriates living in 
New York. 
The recent Bank of Commerce and 
Credit International [BCCIJ scandal 
shows the difficulties of monitoring the 
operations of a multinational bank 
which used the most sophisticated 
modern business techniques and com­
munications equipment and operated 
unmolested in dozens of countries. 
Both the Italian Mafia and the Co­
lombian drug cartels have found in the 
cash economies of the newly emerging 
democracies and their newly private 
enterprises opportunities for money 
laundering on a vast scale. 
Overseas Chinese criminal enter­
prises are forming closer ties with 
United States-based Chinese crime 
groups, particularly as Chinese syn­
dicates flee Hong Kong to escape Chi­
na's planned takeover of the crown col­
ony in 1997. The growth of these inter-
national criminal organizations re­
quires a coordinated professional re­
sponse not only in the United States, 
but from abroad as well. 
Despite the unhappy history of U.S. 
police training programs, there is a 
growing consensus that improved 
international law enforcement must 
become a key U.S. policy objective, 
both to strengthen the process of de­
mocratization abroad and to make 
Americans more secure at home. 
The U.S. model, with its emphasis on 
the critical distinction between inter­
nal security and national defense and 
progressive concepts such as commu­
nity-based policing, can and must be 
aggressively advertised if new and 
troubled democracies around the world 
are to survive and prosper. 
The 6-year record of ICITAP, which 
has operated in several difficult situa­
tions without a hint of scandal, sug­
gests that police training, when carried 
out as an integral part of the overall 
strengthening of the justice system, 
can enhance local law enforcement ef­
forts abroad; contribute significantly 
to the process of democratization by 
putting the police under the control 
and at the service of the community, 
and-over time-provide the contacts, 
good will, and expertise in other coun­
tries required to bolster Americans' 
sense of security both at home and 
abroad. 
Mr. President, current U.S. efforts in 
strengthening global respect for the 
rule of law are woefully inadequate. 
The administration has focused its law 
enforcement efforts primarily in 
antiterrorism and antinarcotics assist­
ance. A growing body of literature, of 
which the GAO report must be seen as 
a part, suggests these efforts will fail 
unless they are coupled with assistance 
to strengthen the justice systems of re­
cipient countries as a whole. 
The administration's peculiar insist­
ence on a "military" strategy for the 
misnamed Andean drug war, a position 
from which they have seemed to back 
down from in the San Antonio drug 
summit, shows the bankruptcy of any 
course that does not include the justice 
system as a whole. 
It is important to note that, as the 
GAO report bears out, there is no sin­
gle agency that is in overall charge of 
U.S. international administration of 
justice efforts; there is no single ar­
ticulate policy or objective that unifies 
these programs, and the proliferation 
of programs under several agencies has 
led to duplication of efforts and com­
plications in implementation. The sec­
tion 660 provision banning police aid is 
observed in the breech, and no longer 
serves the purpose for which it was in­
tended. 
Mr. President, as I have consistently 
pointed out on this floor, the adminis­
tration's failure to provide leadership 
in this area has been particularly egre­
gious in the emerging democracies of 
Eastern Europe. U.S. administration of 
justice efforts have been limited to a 
paltry $750,000 Rule of Law Program 
administered by the U.S. Information 
Agency [USIA]. 
A recent request for help in 19 sepa­
rate areas by Polish Interior Minister 
Henryk Majewski was finally filled 
after an ad hoc interagency meeting 
was held at the State Department at 
which those attending had to pledge 
support from money out of their exist­
ing budgets. 
There is no centrally coordinated ef­
fort to meet the needs of these coun­
tries, there is virtually no money 
available to meet their needs, and 
oversight appears to be planned on a 
similarly improvised basis. 
Yet, the countries of Eastern Europe 
desperately need help in ridding them­
selves of the vestiges of the police state 
organizations left behind by the KGB 
and the Stasi. They need our support in 
changing the reality and the percep­
tion of the police as institutions of po­
litical repression, to that of organiza­
tions dedicated to the community's se­
curity and the eradication of crime. 
Failure of the U.S. Government to 
develop a comprehensive program of 
coordinated support has meant that 
several Eastern European nations have 
sought help from private law enforce­
ment entrepreneurs operating outside 
the control or direction of American 
policymaking and financed by private 
interests. 
Mr. President, clearly greater efforts 
can and should be made, not just in 
Eastern Europe, but in the republics of 
the new Commonwealth of Independent 
States, in Latin America, Africa, and 
Asia as well. 
I believe that there are four essential 
caveats which need to be made in order 
that-in developing programs for the 
future---the abuses associated with past 
U.S. police training programs do not 
happen again. 
First, no assistance should be offered 
to any nation whose leaders have not 
been democratically elected, or which 
is not undergoing a meaningful transi­
tion to full democracy. 
Second, there should be no intel­
ligence agency participation in such 
training. 
Third, those participating as trainers 
or instructors should be the best avail­
able from their professions. 
And finally, all police training pro­
grams should take place within the 
context of a larger effort to improve re­
cipient country administration of jus­
tice. 
To conclude, Mr. President, the grow­
ing internationalization of crime re­
quires a commensurate effort by the 
United States for strategies and pro­
grams to combat it. The post-cold-war 
era will see the emergence of new defi­
nitions of security and of threats, and 
police forces-well trained, well, 
equipped and conversant with U.S. 

--- PDF PAGE 17 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4507 
standards and practices-must provide 
the first line of defense of both democ­
racy and the safety of the individuals 
who reside in it. 
I believe an office needs to be set up 
within the Justice Department that 
would be responsible for oversight and 
coordination of all U.S. administration 
of justice programs, including police 
training, as well as to develop-in con­
sultation with the State Department­
the means to provide comprehensive 
technical assistance to new and emerg­
ing democracies. 
It should also be U.S. policy that all 
security assistance programs reflect 
the essential distinction embodied in 
the principle of posse comitatus, 
whereby civilianized police forces are 
given the primary responsibility for 
the maintenance of internal order in 
the United States. U.S. help in estab­
lishing and strengthening of justice 
systems in these new and emerging de­
mocracies must also be conditioned on 
adherence to international standards of 
human rights. · 
Finally, increased efforts in the ad­
ministration of justice area should be 
accompanied by a hard look at the ra­
tionale for U.S. military assistance 
programs, to ensure that the armed 
forces of a recipient country are not 
competing for control of law enforce- ' 
ment with local civilian police forces. 
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con­
sent that a copy of the GAO report be 
printed in the RECORD, as well as sev­
eral letters on this important issue. 
There being no objection, the mate­
rial was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 
FOREIGN AID: POLICE TRAINING AND 
ASSISTANCE 
[U.S. General Accounting Office] 
(Report to Congressional Requesters, March 
1992) 
U.S. GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE, 
NATIONAL SECURITY AND INTER­
NATIONAL AFFAIRS DIVISION, 
Washington, DC, March 5, 1992. 
Hon. ALAN CRANSTON, 
U.S. Senate. 
Hon. RICHARD LUGAR, 
U.S. Senate. 
Hon. DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN, 
U.S. Senate. 
Hon. BROCK ADAMS, 
U.S. Senate. 
Hon. THOMAS A. DASHLE, 
U.S. Senate. 
This report partially responds to your re­
quest that we review U.S. training and as­
sistance provided to foreign law enforcement 
agencies and personnel. This report provides 
information on (1) the legislative authority 
for providing assistance to foreign law en­
forcement agencies and personnel, (2) the ex­
tent and cost of U.S. activities, and (3) ex­
perts' opinions on the management of these 
programs. 
BACKGROUND 
The United States began assisting foreign 
police in the 1950s. The level of assistance ex­
panded in the early 1960s when the Kennedy 
administration became concerned about 
growing communist insurgent activities and 
established a public safety program within 
the Agency for International Development 
(AID) to train foreign police. By 1968 the 
United States was spending $60 million a 
year to train police in 34 countries in areas 
such as criminal investigation, patrolling, 
interrogation and counterinsurgency tech­
niques, riot control, weapon use, and bomb 
disposal. The United States also provided 
weapons, telecommunications, transpor­
tation, and other equipment. In the early 
1970s, the Congress became concerned over 
the apparent absence of clear policy guide­
lines and the use of program funds to support 
repressive regimes that committed human 
rights' abuses. As a result, the Congress de­
termined that it was inadvisable for the 
United States to continue supporting any 
foreign police organizations. 
RESULTS IN BRIEF 
In 1973 and 1974, the Congress enacted leg­
islation that prohibits U.S. agencies from 
using foreign economic or military assist­
ance funds to assist foreign police, but it 
subsequently granted numerous exemptions 
to permit assistance in some countries and 
in various aspects of police force develop­
ment, including material and weapons sup­
port, force management, narcotics control, 
and counterterrorism tactics. The 1974 prohi­
bition did not apply to the use of other funds 
by agencies such as the Departments of Jus­
tice or Transportation to train or assist for­
eign law enforcement personnel. 
We could not determine the total extent or 
cost of U.S. assistance to foreign police be­
cause some agencies do not maintain such 
data. However, we identified 125 countries 
that received U.S. training and assistance 
for their police forces during fiscal year 1990 
at a cost of at least $117 million. 
Former and current U.S. government offi­
cials and academic experts who have been in­
volved with assistance to foreign police 
forces stated that there is only limited head­
quarters guidance and coordination of such 
assistance. Some believe that activities may 
not be efficiently implemented nor support­
ive of overall U.S. policy goals. 
LEGISLATIVE PROVISIONS ON POLICE 
ASSISTANCE 
In the Foreign Assistance Act of 1973,1 the 
Congress prohibited the use of foreign assist­
ance funds for police training and related 
programs in foreign countries. In December 
1974, the Congress added section 660 to the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to terminate 
AID's public safety program and expand the 
prohibition by stating that: 
On and after July 1, 1975, none of the funds 
made available to carry out this Act, and 
none of the local currencies generated under 
this Act, shall be used to provide training or 
advice, or provide any financial support, for 
police, prisons, or other law enforcement 
forces for any foreign government or any 
program of internal intelligence or surveil­
lance on behalf of any foreign government 
within the United States or abroad. 2 
The amendment applies only to funds ap­
propriated to carry out the purposes of the 
Foreign Assistance Act, and does not apply 
to other agencies' appropriations. Also, the 
prohibition does not apply to any activity of 
the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) and 
Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) relat­
ed to "crimes of the nature of which are un­
lawful in the United States" or assistance to 
combat international narcotics trafficking. 
According to DEA and FBI officials, the ex-
1 P.L. 93-189, sec. 2, 87 stat. 714, 716. 
2Foreign Assistance Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-559, sec. 
30(a), 88 stat . 1795, 1804). 
emption permits these agencies to train for­
eign police. The act also permitted U.S. 
agencies to complete contracts for police as­
sistance entered into before enactment of 
the amendment. 
In 1981, the Congress began exempting ad­
ditional activities or specific countries from 
the prohibition; for example, antiterrorism 
training, police investigative training, police 
force development in Panama, and military 
training to police in the Eastern Caribbean 
Regional Security System. (See app. I for 
further information on exemptions to police 
training.) 
POLICE ASSISTANCE 
Although some U.S. departments and agen­
cies do not maintain data or regularly report 
on the extent or cost of assistance they pro­
vide to foreign police forces using their own 
appropriated funds, we identified 125 coun­
tries that received such training and assist­
ance during fiscal year 1990 at a cost of about 
$117 million. U.S. programs providing assist­
ance are the Department of State's Inter­
national Narcotics Control ($45 million) and 
Antiterrorism Assistance ($10 million) pro­
grams; the Department of Justice's Inter­
national Criminal Investigative Training As­
sistance Program ($20 million); and the De­
partment of Defense's program to assist na­
tional police forces ($42 million). Two or 
more programs operate in 46 countries, with 
most of the funds spent for Latin American 
and Caribbean police. The Department of 
Justice also pays for police training from its 
own appropriated funds, but the Department 
was unable to identify the extent or cost of 
such training. (See apps. II and ill for fur­
ther information on assistance provided to 
foreign police forces.) 
CONCERNS ON MANAGEMENT OF ASSISTANCE 
Current and former State Department and 
other government officials, and academic ex­
perts who have been involved in assistance 
to foreign police forces, stated that the U.S. 
government lacks (1) a clear policy on the 
role of U.S. assistance to police forces in the 
new and emerging democracies, (2) clearly 
defined program objectives, (3) a focal point 
for coordination and decision-making, and 
(4) a means for determining whether individ­
ual programs and activities support U.S. pol­
icy or contribute to overall U.S. interests. 
They noted that each program is managed 
individually, .and the only place that coordi­
nation is occurring is at the U.S. embassy in 
the country. They expressed concern that in 
a country with more than one program, ac­
tivities may be duplicative. One official ex­
pressed the opinion that the U.S. govern­
ment needs to develop national policy guide­
lines for all police assistance programs to in­
sure that cumulatively they support com­
mon objectives . We are continuing to look at 
these issues in our on-going work (See app. 
II.) 
SCOPE AND METHODOLOGY 
We obtained information on U.S. training 
and assistance provided to foreign law en­
forcement personnel, reviewed the legisla­
tive authority for providing this training 
and assistance, and identified efforts to co­
ordinate these activities. We did not review 
program implementation in recipient coun­
tries. We interviewed officials and obtained 
records from AID and the Departments of 
State, Justice, and Defense, in Washington, 
D.C.; reviewed legislation and agency legal 
opinions on foreign police assistance; inter­
viewed academic and legal experts on cur­
rent U.S. assistance to foreign police; and re­
viewed literature published on foreign police 
assistance and AID's public safety program. 

--- PDF PAGE 18 ---
4508 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
We conducted this review from August 1991 
to January 1992 in accordance with generally 
accepted government auditing standards. As 
you requested, we did not obtain written 
agency comments on this report; however, 
we discussed it with agency program officials 
and incorporated their comments where ap­
propriate. 
We are sending copies of this report to the 
Secretaries of State and Defense, the Attor­
ney General, the Administrator of AID, and 
appropriate congressional committees. We 
will also make copies available to others 
upon request. 
Please call me at (202) 275-5790 if you or 
your staff have any questions concerning 
this report. The major contributors to this 
report are Donald Patton, Assistant Direc­
tor, Joan M. Slowitsky, Evaluator-in­
Charge; and John Neumann, Evaluator. 
HAROLD J. JOHNSON, 
Director, Foreign Economic 
Assistance Issues. 
APPENDIX I. LEGISLATIVE EXEMPTIONS TO THE 
PROHIBITION ON U.S. ASSISTANCE TO FOR­
EIGN POLICE 
The Congress has granted numerous ex­
emptions to the 1974 prohibition against as­
sisting foreign police forces. The exemptions 
generally authorize activities that benefit a 
specific U.S. goal, such as countering the 
terrorist threat to U.S. citizens overseas or 
combating drug trafficking. 
INTERNATIONAL SECURITY AND DEVELOPMENT 
COOPERATION ACT OF 1981 
The International Security and Develop­
ment Cooperation Act of 1981 1 removed the 
section 660 prohibition on assistance to for­
eign police forces in Haiti and allowed such 
assistance for Haiti during fiscal years 1982 
and 1983. The purpose was to help stop illegal 
emigration from Haiti to the United States. 
Subsequent acts continued this exemption 
for fiscal years 1984, 1986, and 1987. 
INTERNATIONAL SECURITY AND DEVELOPMENT 
ASSISTANCE AUTHORIZATIONS ACT OF 1983 
With the International Security and Devel­
opment Assistance Authorizations Act of 
1983,2 the Congress authorized ·an 
antiterrorism program to train foreign po­
lice in the United States. In 1990 Congress re­
laxed the section 660 restrictions to allow 
training outside the United States for 30 
days or less if it relates to aviation security, 
crisis management, document screening 
techniques, facility security, maritime secu­
rity, protection for very important pe ;~ sons, 
and handling of detector dogs. 3 
INTERNATIONAL SECURITY AND DEVELOPMENT 
COOPERATION ACT OF 1985 
With the International Security and Devel­
opment Cooperation Act of 1985 4 addressed a 
series of police assistance activities. It ex­
panded upon a 1984 act that authorized a ju­
dicial reform project in El Salvador and ex­
empted assistance to Salvadoran police in 
judicial investigative roles from the section 
660 prohibition.s The 1985 act expanded the 
judicial reform program and the police train­
ing exemption to countries in Latin America 
and the Caribbean. In 1988 the Congress fur­
ther expanded the judicial reform program 
to allow police assistance to promote inves-
1 P.L . 97-113, sec. 72l(d), 95 stat. 1519. 
2 P.L. 98-151, sec . 101(b)(2), 97 stat. 968, 972. 
3Aviat1on Security Improvement Act of 1990 (P.L. 
101-604, title II, sec. 213(b), 104 stat. 3066, 3086). 
• P .L. 99-83, sec. 712, 99 stat . 190, 244. 
& Foreign Assistance and Related Programs Appro­
priations Act of 1984 (P.L. 98-151, sec . lOl(b)(l), 97 
stat . 964, 966 (1983)). 
tigative and forensic skills, develop law en­
forcement training curricula, and improve 
administration and management of law en­
forcement organizations. This act specifi­
cally prohibited the Department of Defense 
(DOD) and the U.S. armed forces from pro­
viding training under this program. 6 
The 1985 act also exempted assistance for 
maritime law enforcement and other mari­
time skills from the section 660 prohibition, 
and removed the prohibition for any country 
that has a long-standing democratic tradi­
tion, does not have armed forces, and does 
not engage in a consistent pattern of gross 
violations of human rights. The act per­
mitted such countries to receive any type of 
police assistance. 
Finally, the 1985 act authorized assistance 
to Honduran and El Salvadoran police for fis­
cal years 1986 and 1987, provided that the 
President determined and notified the Con­
gress that those countries had made signifi­
cant progress in eliminating human rights 
violations. This exemption permitted DOD to 
train and equip these countries' police forces 
to respond to acts of terrorism. The exemp­
tion was not renewed beyond fiscal year 1987. 
INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL ACTS 
This series of acts approved certain police 
assistance activities in Latin America and 
the Caribbean for narcotics control purposes. 
The International Narcotics Control Act of 
1986 7 permitted DOD to provide training to 
foreign police in the operation and mainte­
nance of aircraft used in narcotics control. 
The International Narcotics Control Act of 
1988 8 expanded DOD's role and allowed it to 
provide training and weapons and ammuni­
tion in fiscal years 1989 and 1990 to foreign 
police units that are specifically organized 
for narcotics enforcement in eligible coun­
tries in Latin America and the Caribbean. 
This act also allowed economic support funds 
to be provided to Colombian police for the 
protection of judges, government officials, 
and members of the press against narco-ter­
rorist attacks. 
The International Narcotics Control Act of 
1989 9 extended DOD's authority to train and 
provide defense articles to foreign police 
units in Bolivia, Colombia, and Peru in fiscal 
year 1990, provided they are organized spe­
cifically for narcotics enforcement. This au­
thority differs from the 1988 act in that it al­
lowed DOD to provide, in addition to weap­
ons and ammunition, other defense articles 
such as helicopters, vehicles, radios, and per­
sonnel gear. 
The International Narcotics Control Act of 
199010 authorized DOD to continue to train 
and equip police forces in the Andean region 
in fiscal year 1990. This act was similar to 
the previous acts in that it permits DOD to 
train police forces in the operation and 
maintenance of equipment and in tactical 
operations in narcotics interdiction and also 
allowed DOD to provide defense articles to 
these units. However , it also allows DOD to 
provide commodities, such as nonmilitary 
equipment or supplies, to narcotics control 
police forces. This act also continued the as­
sistance to Colombia to protect against 
narco-terrorist attacks and extended this as­
sistance to Bolivia and Peru for fiscal year 
1991. 
&Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Relat­
ed Programs Appropriations Act for 1988 (P.L. 100-
202, sec. 579, 101 stat . 1329-181 (1987)). 
1 P.L . 00-570, title II, sec. 2004, 100 stat. 3207-00. 
s P.L . 100-690, title IV, 102 stat. 4181, 4261. 
e P.L . 101-231, sec. 3, 103 stat. 1954. 
10P.L. 101 623, sec. 3(d), 104 stat. 3352. 
URGENT ASSISTANCE FOR DEMOCRACY IN 
PANAMA ACT OF 1990 
In 1990, after the U.S. intervention in Pan­
ama, the Congress significantly enhanced 
the U.S. role in the development of the new 
police force in Panama. The Urgent Assist­
ance for Democracy in Panama Act of 1990 11 
permitted training in areas such as human 
rights, civil law, and overall civilian law en­
forcement techniques. The act also per­
mitted DOD, using prior year military as­
sistance funds, to procure defense articles 
and related services for law enforcement 
forces in Panama. 
FOREIGN OPERATIONS, EXPORT FINANCING, AND 
RELATED PROGRAMS APPROPRIATIONS ACT 
FOR 1991 
The Foreign Operations, Export Financing, 
and Related Programs Appropriations Act 
for 199!12 amended section 660 to allow U.S. 
assistance to police forces of countries that 
are members of the regional security system 
of the Eastern Caribbean. With the exception 
of Antigua and Barbados, other member 
countries did not require this exemption to 
receive assistance because they were covered 
under the existing exemption that permitted 
assistance to police forces in countries with 
long-standing democratic traditions, and no 
armed forces . Antigua and Barbados have 
armed forces. 
OTHER EXEMPTIONS TO POLICE ASSISTANCE 
PROHIBITION 
In addition to the exemptions previously 
discussed, there are other authorities that 
waive the prohibition on assistance to police 
forces of foreign countries. For example, the 
President may authorize foreign assistance 
when "it is important to the security inter­
ests of the United States" .13 This allows the 
President to waive any provision of the For­
eign Assistance Act of 1961, including section 
660. 
APPENDIX II. U.S. ASSISTANCE PROVIDED TO 
FOREIGN POLICE 
ANTITERRORISM ASSISTANCE 
The goal of the Department of State's 
Antiterrorism Assistance Program (ATA) is 
to improve foreign governments' 
antiterrorist capabilities to better protect 
U.S. citizens and interests. In fiscal year 
1990, the United States provided 
antiterrorism assistance to 49 countries at a 
cost of nearly $10 million. Sixty-two percent 
of the funds were spent in Latin America, 
the Caribbean, and Europe, and less than 
$500,000 was used to purchase equipment. 
Representative training included judicial 
protection, protection to very important per­
sons, hostage negotiation, and antiterrorist 
operations. The Department of State man­
ages the program and contracts with other 
U.S. government agencies, state or local po­
lice departments, and private firms to con­
duct the training. The Federal Aviation Ad­
ministration, U.S. Customs Service, the Im­
migration and Naturalization Service, the 
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, 
and the U.S. Marshals Service are regular 
trainers. In compliance with legislative re­
quirements, most training takes place in the 
United States. 
In addition to training provided under the 
ATA program, the Federal Aviation Admin­
istration provides aviation security training 
to a limited number of foreign officials who 
attend their basic security training courses. 
The course deals in part with the role of law 
11 P .L. 101-243, sec . lOl(b), 104 stat. 7. 
12 P .L. 101-513, sec. 594, 104 stat. 2060 (1990). 
1322 U.S . C. 2364. 

--- PDF PAGE 19 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4509 
enforcement in support of passenger screen- mately 100 international police officials at­
ing procedures and airport security pro- tend the 11-week college level course at the 
grams. FBI National Academy that includes studies 
INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL 
One of the objectives of the Department of 
State Bureau of International Narcotics 
Matters (INM) international narcotics con­
trol training program is to strengthen host 
country enforcement and interdiction capa­
bilities. During fiscal year 1990, INM pro­
vided a minimum of $45 million in training 
and equipment to foreign police, principally 
in Mexico, Jamaica, Colombia, Ecuador, 
Peru, Bolivia, Brazil, Venezuela, Pakistan, 
Thailand, and Turkey. These are all narcot­
ics producing and trafficking countries. 
INM reimburses other U.S. government 
agencies, primarily the Drug Enforcement 
Agency (DEA), Customs, and Coast Guard, to 
conduct the actual training . DEA provides 
narcotics investigative training, customs 
teaches air, sea and land port search proce­
dures, and Coast Guard teaches courses in 
maritime interdiction. Other agencies may 
also be requested to train on a reimbursable 
basis in areas where they have specific ex­
pertise. For example, DOD provides heli­
copter training to police in drug trafficking 
countries. Training is conducted both over­
seas and in the United States and is reviewed 
and approved by INM. 
In addition, DOD used military assistance 
funds to train and equip narcotics enforce­
ment police in several drug producing and 
trafficking countries. Documents provided 
by DOD show that in fiscal year 1990, DOD 
provided training and equipment with a 
value of at least $17 million to Mexico, $1.3 
million to Bolivia, $10 million to Colombia 
Sl million to Ecuador, and $1 million t~ 
Peru. DOD officials informed us that train­
ing and equipment valued at more than these 
amounts may also have been provided. How­
ever, documentation was not available at the 
Washington, D.C., agency headquarters level 
that specified the amounts for law enforce­
ment activities. The equipment provided 
consisted of UH-1 helicopters and spare 
parts, ammunition, small arms, riot control 
equipment, radios, and miscellaneous per­
sonal gear. 
INVESTIGATIVE AND INTERNATIONAL POLICE 
TRAINING 
During fiscal year 1986, the Agency for 
International Development (AID) transferred 
funds to the Department of Justice (DOJ) to 
design, develop, and implement projects to 
improve and enhance the investigative capa­
bilities of law enforcement agencies in the 
Latin America and the Caribbean region. 
This was part of AID's effort to reform judi­
cial systems. Using these funds, DOJ estab­
lished the International Criminal Investiga­
tive Training Assistance Program (ICITAP). 
Operating under State Department over­
sight, ICITAP has conducted criminal justice 
sector needs assessments in the region and 
has expanded its training to include basjc po­
lice management and police academy devel­
opment. In fiscal year 1990, ICITAP received 
S7 million from the Department of State for 
its regional program. It trained more than 
1,000 students from the Caribbean, Central 
and South America and sponsored 7 con­
ferences. Training includes police manage­
ment, criminal investigation, crime scene 
searph, and forensic medicine courses. Ex­
cept for students sent to training programs 
in the United States, ICITAP training takes 
place overseas. 
The Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) 
also provides limited training for foreign law 
enforcement officials. Each year approxi-
on management and forensic sciences. The 
FBI pays for the training and subsistence, 
but does not pay for the students' transpor­
tation. Over the last 10 years, more than 
1,100 foreign police officials from 89 countries 
have graduated from this course. 
The FBI also established two training 
cours~s for foreign police using its own ap­
propriated funds. The first began in 1987 
when FBI agents along the Mexican border 
began training Mexican police to better as­
sist the United States in its investigations. 
Mexican officers receive a 3-day course in 
basic law enforcement techniques to include 
crime scene management, collection and 
preservation of evidence, hostage negotia­
tions, forensic science, and investigative 
techniques. Since 1987, over 400 Mexican bor­
der police have been trained. FBI officials 
stated that the FBI plans to establish a 
training school in Mexico during 1992 at an 
estimated cost of about $250,000 annually, ex­
cluding salaries. 
The second course developed by the FBI for 
foreign police was to provide mid-level man­
agement training for police officials from 
the Pacific Island nations. The 4-week course 
includes first-line supervision, investigative 
techniques, and hostage negotiations. During 
1991, 52 students graduated from the course 
held in Guam at a cost to the FBI of about 
$35,000. About 50 students are expected to at­
tend this course during the spring of 1992. 
The FBI also provides other training and 
assistance to foreign police as requested, but 
the cost is unknown. For example, the Na­
tional Center for the Analysis of Violent 
Crime provided training to Canadian police. 
The Criminal Investigative Division con­
ducted a training seminar for officers from 
Italy's three national law enforcement agen­
cies on the use of sensitive investigative 
techniques such as the operation of confiden­
tial sources, undercover operations, and elec­
tronic surveillance . The FBI also furnishes 
on-the-job assistance to governments who re­
quest help during particularly difficult or 
sensitive investigations. 
NATIONAL POLICE FORCE DEVELOPMENT 
After the U.S. intervention in Panama in 
December 1989, ICITAP implemented a pro­
gram to help develop the newly formed Pan­
amanian Public Force using $13.2 million in 
fiscal years 1990 and 1991 foreign assistance 
funds. The goal was to develop a profes­
sional, civilian national police force that is 
fully integrated into Panamanian society, 
capable of protecting its people, and dedi­
cated to supporting the Panamanian con­
stitution, laws, and human rights. Since the 
program began, ICITAP has trained about 
5,500 police officers and provided institu­
tional development assistance, such as help 
in starting the National Police Academy, im­
proved recruitment procedures, and creating 
an in-house self-monitoring organization. In 
addition, ICITAP has worked closely with 
U.S. Embassy and Panamanian government 
officials to develop plans and policies appro­
priate for a police force in a democracy. 
COUNTERTERRORISM AND MILITARY ASSISTANCE 
DOD supplies a limited amount of military 
training and assistance to police officials. 
During fiscal years 1986 and 1987, DOD 
trained and equipped the El Salvadoran and 
Honduran police to counter urban terrorist 
activities. This assistance was authorized in 
response to the murder of U.S. Marines by 
terrorists in El Salvador and was managed 
and delivered by the U.S. Army Military Po-
lice. The assistance consisted of training in 
counterterrorism techniques and the supply 
of police vehicles, communications, weapons, 
and other equipment. This effort cost $19.8 
million, of which Sl 7 million was provided to 
El Salvador . 
In fiscal year 1990, DOD spent $6.4 million 
in previously authorized but unused military 
assistance funds to purchase needed equip­
ment and weapons for Panama's newly 
formed national police force. Items procured 
included police vehicles, communications 
equipment, small arms, and personal gear. 
This assistance was a one-time, emergency 
program. 
DOD has an ongoing military assistance 
program to support Costa Rican police. In 
fiscal year 1990, DOD supplied $431 000 in 
mil.it?-ry equipment and $232,000 in m'ilitary 
trarnrng to the Costa Rican Civil Guard to 
help them carry out their responsibility to 
protect the border regions of the country. 
DOD provided equipment such . as vehicles 
personnel gear, and radios, and military 
training in areas such as coastal operations. 
Additionally, DOD conducted technical 
training courses in equipment maintenance 
and medical skills among others. 
DOD, along with the United Kingdom, sup­
ports the Eastern Caribbean Regional Secu­
rity System that was formed after the U.S. 
intervention in Grenada. The Security Sys­
tem is composed of a few permanently as­
signed military officers, but largely depends 
upon island nation police officers who can be 
called up for military duty in case of emer­
gency. The United States equips and trains 
these personnel to prepare them for such an 
eventually. In fiscal year 1990, DOD provided 
$4.2 million in military assistance funds that 
were used to purchase equipment such as 
jeeps, small arms, uniforms, and communica­
tions gear. DOD also provided $300,000 for 
training in special operations, rural patrol 
field survival, and surveillance, as well a~ 
technical courses in communications navi­
gation, maintenance, and medicine. ' 
DIFFICULTIES IN DETERMINING COST AND 
EXTENT OF ASSISTANCE 
We could not accurately determine the ex­
tent or cost of assistance to foreign police 
because agencies do not regularly report on 
assistance funded out of their own budgets, 
some double counting of students may be oc­
curring and agencies may not be differentiat ­
ing between assistance provided to police 
and assistance provided to the military. For 
example, in response to our request, DOJ 
began collecting information on its support 
of foreign police, including data on travel ex­
penses, salaries , and expendable items such 
as course materials. However, the Depart­
ment could not assign a dollar value to all of 
these activities. Other agencies may be con­
ducting similar work of which we are un­
aware . There also may be some double count­
ing of foreign police trainees . For example, 
the agency supplying the .training and the 
agency paying for the training may both in­
clude the trainees in their reporting sys­
tems, such as when !CIT AP pays for students 
attending the FBI academy. 
Also, we could not always determine 
whether a student was a police officer or a 
military member because some agencies do 
not collect such data, DOD officials informed 
us that once they receive permission to train 
police in a specific activity they do not pro­
vide a further accounting breakdown. For ex­
ample, training provided to the Eastern Car­
ibbean Regional Security System was for law 
enforcement personnel, although a few train­
ees may have belonged to military organiza­
tions. 

--- PDF PAGE 20 ---
4510 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
CONCERNS EXPRESSED ABOUT POLICE 
ASSISTANCE 
High-level program officials, former U.S. 
officials, and ac11-demic experts identified 
several issues that they believe affect the ef­
fectiveness of foreign police assistance . 
Their views are presented below ; however, we 
did not verify whether the problems they 
identified have adversely affected programs 
in recipient countries. 
LIMITED POLICY GUIDANCE OR CENTRAL 
MANAGEMENT 
Officials with whom we spoke stated that 
overall police training policy guidance at the 
Washington, DC, headquarters management 
level was limited . A former U.S. Ambassador 
in Latin America said that because there is 
no U.S . policy guidance, each agency pursues 
its own program agenda, which may not be 
in concert with long-term U.S. interests. 
Thus , he said, the U.S . government lacks a 
mechanism for considering how the various 
activities contribute to a strategy of foster­
ing democratic institutions or to serving 
other national interests. 
Program managers informed us that each 
program is managed separately without a 
mechanism to insure that activities are co­
ordinated and not duplicative . The Coordina­
tor for Counter -Terrorism informed us that 
the effect of the various pieces of legislation 
and resulting programs is that there is a lot 
of disparate police training and some inter­
agency competition, but without anyone in 
charge . The coordinator believes that this 
does not serve U.S. interests. He stated that 
a Policy Coordinating Committee coordi­
nates all antiterrorism assistance delivered 
by participating agencies such as the FBI 
and the State Department. He noted how­
ever , that the committee does not coordinate 
with agencies providing police training out­
side of the ATA umbrella. In addition , al­
though INM, DEA, and the other agen cies 
providing narcotics control assistance co­
ordinate with each other, officials informed 
us that they do not routinely coordinate 
with ATA or ICITAP on police assistance ac­
tivities. 
The absence of centralized monitoring or 
management leaves the focal point for deci­
sion-making at the embassy level. However , 
one program official believed that embassy 
personnel may be unaware of the full range 
of programs and training available and may 
lack expertise in police training. Further , 
given the multitude of programs, there is no 
single individual or office within the em­
bassy with the expertise or authority to 
manage all programs. For example, the AT A 
program generally is coordinated through 
the embassy 's regional security officer , 
while ICITAP generally coordinates its ac­
tivities through a · political officer, or di­
rectly with the Ambassador , and DEA man ­
ages its programs through either an in-coun­
try attache or a special narcotics coordina ­
tor . 
A former U.S. Ambassador in Latin Amer­
ica stated that by allowing so much decision­
making authority at the embassy level, the 
degree of oversight and coordination of po­
lice activities is dependent on the priority 
the Ambassador assigns to these activities . 
He said that not every Ambassador keeps a 
close watch on all in-country activities, and 
that this suggests the need for greater co­
ordination, monitoring, and supervision at 
the Washington, D.C., level. 
PROGRAM OBJECTIVES AND ACTIVITIES 
DUPLICATED 
A State Department official said that be­
cause of the proliferation of programs and 
the overlap in objectives, U.S. agencies may 
be duplicating efforts. As a result, determin­
ing which agency will provide training may 
depend largely on whether an agency has the 
resources or takes the initiative. A program 
officer acknowledged that some foreign offi­
cials are receiving similar courses from dif­
ferent agencies and similar program objec­
tives may also result in duplicative adminis­
trative and assessment functions. An ATA 
official stated that although ATA's charter 
limits its training to antiterrorism, the 
strategy and objectives of ATA's training 
parallel those of ICITAP; both want to im­
prove law enforcement capabilities. DEA is 
also concerned about general enforcement 
capabilities as part of its drug interdiction 
activities. However, each agency conducts 
in-depth force capability and training needs 
assessments before commencing training. 
APPENDIX Ill. COUNTRIES RECEIVING POLICE 
ASSISTANCE 
Table III.I shows the countries that have 
received assistance from the United States 
for their police forces during fiscal year 1990. 
The actual level of assistance varies signifi­
cantly among countries. For example, a 
country listed as a recipient of INM 
counternarcotics assistance may have had as 
few as one participant in a training course, 
or received many millions of dollars in train­
ing and equipment. Assistance .listed under 
the DOJ includes the FBI but not ICITAP. 
Although ICITAP is a DOJ program, it re­
ceives foreign assistance funds channeled 
through the Department of State. The ATA 
column includes only antiterrorism assist­
ance managed under that program . The as­
sistance listed under INM includes training 
provided by DEA , U.S. Coast Guard, and U.S . 
Customs Service. 
TABLE 111.1: COUNTRIES RECEIVING POLICE ASSISTANCE IN 
FISCAL YEAR 1990 
Africa: 
Botswana .. 
Burkina Faso 
Burundi ......... 
Central Afri-
can Repub-
lic ............. . 
Chad ............ .. 
Congo .......... .. 
Cote D'Ivoire 
Ethiopia ......... 
Gabon 
Ghana 
Guinea 
Kenya 
Mali ............. .. 
Mauritania .... . 
Mauritius ...... . 
Mozambique 
Niger ............ .. 
Nigeria ......... .. 
Rwanda ....... .. 
Senegal ....... .. 
Seychelles 
Sudan ....... 
Tanzania 
Togo ........ . 
Uganda ........ .. 
Zaire ............ .. 
Zambia ......... . 
Zimbabwe ..... . 
Latin America and 
the Caribbean: 
Antigua-Bar-
buda t ...... . 
Argentina ...... . 
Bahamas ...... . 
Barbados t .... . 
Belize ............ . 
Bolivia2 ........ . 
Brazil ........... .. 
Chile ............. . 
Colombia 2 ... .. 
Costa Rica .. .. 
Dominica 1 ... .. 
Dominican Re-
public ....... . 
Ecuador ........ . 
ATA DOJ ICITAP INM DOD 
TABLE 111.1: COUNTRIES RECEIVING POLICE ASSISTANCE IN 
FISCAL YEAR 199{}--Continued 
El Salvador .. .. 
Grenada t ..... . 
Guatemala .... . 
Guyana ........ .. 
Haiti ............ .. 
Honduras ...... . 
Jamaica ....... .. 
Mexico2 ...... .. 
Nicaragua ..... . 
Panama2 ..... .. 
Paraguay ..... .. 
Peru 2 ............ . 
St. Kitts & 
Nevis1 ..... .. 
St. Lucia 1 .... . 
St. Vincent 1 
Surinam ......... 
Trinidad & To-
bago ........ .. 
Uruguay ........ . 
Venezuela .... .. 
East Asia and Pa-
cific: 
Australia ....... . 
Brunei .......... .. 
Fiji ................ . 
Hong Kong ... .. 
Indonesia ...... . 
Kiribati ......... . 
Korea ............ . 
Laos .............. . 
Malaysia ...... . 
Marshall Is-
lands ....... 
New Zealand 
Papua New 
Guinea ..... . 
Philippines .. .. 
Samoa .......... . 
Singapore ..... . 
Solomon Is-
lands ....... .. 
Taiwan ......... .. 
Thailand ...... .. 
Tonga .......... .. 
Tuvalu .......... . 
Vanuatu ........ . 
Europe and Can-
ada: 
Austria ......... .. 
Canada ........ .. 
Cyprus .......... . 
Czecho-
slovakia .. .. 
Denmark ....... . 
England ........ . 
Finland ........ .. 
France ......... . 
Germany ....... . 
Greece ......... .. 
Hungary ....... .. 
Iceland ........ .. 
Ireland .......... . 
Italy ............. .. 
Malta ........... .. 
Netherlands .. . 
Norway ......... .. 
Poland ......... .. 
Portugal .. 
Spain ............ . 
Sweden ......... . 
Turkey ........... . 
United King-
dom ......... .. 
U.S.S.R ........ . 
Yugoslavia . 
Near East and 
South Asia: 
Bahrain ........ . 
Bangladesh .. . 
Egypt ........... . 
India ............ .. 
Israel ............ . 
Jordan .......... .. 
Kuwait .......... . 
Lebanon ... 
Maldives ...... .. 
Nepal ............ . 
Oman ............ . 
Pakistan ...... .. 
Qatar ............ . 
Saudi Arabia 
Sri Lanka .. .. 
Syria ............ .. 
Tunisia ......... . 
United Arab 
Emirates .. . 
Yemen ......... .. 
ATA DOJ ICITAP INM DOD 
1 These countries are members of the Eastern Caribbean Regional Security 
System which received a total of $4.5 million in military training and equip­
ment. They also received investigative and other training from ICITAP. 2 Available data indicates that these countries received at least $5 mil­
lion in police training and assistance. 

--- PDF PAGE 21 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4511 
U.S. SENATE, 
Washington, DC, May 2, 1991. 
Hon. RICHARD THORNBURGH, 
Attorney General, Department of Justice, Wash­
ington, DC. 
DEAR DICK: As you know, I have been very 
interested in the issue of designing U.S. se­
curity assistance programs for the post-Cold 
War period. Obviously, administration of jus­
tice and police training form part of the core 
of programs that might significantly benefit 
from a hard look at their future, with a view 
to making them more appropriate for the 
1990s. 
To this end I, together with four of my col­
leagues, recently asked the Government Ac­
counting Office to look into both the way 
the system is currently working, as well as 
proposals for its reform. Among the issues 
we asked the GAO to address were the fol­
lowing: the intent and efficacy of current re­
strictions on civ111an police training; the 
scope, structure and efficacy of existing ad­
ministration of justice programs, and the 
compatibility of security assistance training 
with U.S. models of civil-military and civil­
police relations. 
I know you have given considerable 
thought to these issues, and that is my rea­
son for writing to you today. I understand 
your office is receiving an increasing number 
of requests from abroad for help in the ad­
ministration of justice area, particularly in 
police training and prison reform. 
There appears to be a growing need for 
help in these areas, especially from the 
emerging democracies of Eastern and 
Central Europe. Our offices have been in con­
tact on this particular issue before, and I 
thank you for your support for my bill, S. 
552, the "Omnibus Eastern European Secu­
rity Assistance, Act." I would very much ap­
preciate hearing your views in full on how S. 
552 could help meet the need in the Eastern 
European region, and what more, if any­
thing, needs to be done. 
And beyond that, I would like to take this 
opportunity to get your views on several of 
the issues we posed to the GAO on the issue 
of administration of justice: 
(1) In what ways might we improve the ad­
ministration of justice, including police de­
velopment, in new and emerging democ­
racies? 
(2) Concerning the effects of the restric­
tions mandated by Section 660 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act on international police train­
ing: 
(a) How many exemptions currently exist 
to the Section 660 rule? Given various pro-
. grams and exemptions, does this confuse re­
cipient governments or agencies about the 
purposes of U.S. police training? For exam­
ple, the International Criminal Investigative 
Training and Assistance Program (ICIT AP) 
is prohibited from teaching surveillance 
techniques, while other programs are per­
mitted to give this type of instruction as 
part of their mission. 
(b) How different is the context in which 
police training is currently carried out from 
that of the 1960s and 1970s? Related to this, 
what kinds of oversight mechanisms do you 
believe are necessary to prevent the allega­
tions of abuse which occurred in the past? 
And how might police training programs be 
structured so as to anticipate effectively the 
objections to international police training 
which resulted in the passage of Section 660? 
(c) Currently, most administration of jus­
tice programs carried out under Section 534 
of the Foreign Assistance Act are adminis­
tered by the Agency for International Devel­
opment. The police training and assistance 
component under Section 534 has been re-del­
egated to the State Department which allo­
cates funds to the Department of Justice to 
carry out such programs. There have been 
doubts expressed about All's ab111ty to 
carry out administration of justice pro­
grams. There have also been suggestions 
that all international justice assistance pro­
grams be placed under the supervision of the 
Department of Justice. What is your assess­
ment about such proposals? If it is positive, 
how would Justice Department leadership in 
this field result in better and more effective 
programs? 
(d) In your view, how successful a program 
is the International Criminal Investigative 
Training and Assistance Program? Is 
ICITAP, as currently structured, capable of 
carrying out programs on a world-wide 
scale? If not what changes are needed to 
allow it to respond to growing demands for 
its services outside Central and South Amer­
ica? 
(e) What is the current U.S. law enforce­
ment presence in Eastern and Central Eu­
rope? How many legal attache posts are 
there in American embassies there? If there 
is a need for more, what mission(s) do you 
see them performing? How many legal at­
taches are there worldwide, and how do they 
acquire their expertise? What plans are cur­
rently being made to strengthen any per­
ceived gaps in law enforcement efforts i,n the 
region by the administration? 
(f) If the Department of Justice were to be 
given a larger role in the area of inter­
national administration of justice programs, 
what efforts do you foresee it making to help 
host countries make a transition from mili­
tary-led to civilian-run law enforcement, · 
given the fact that, as has been noted by 
Congress, the separation of the military · 
from civilian law enforcement functions has 
historically been a critical element in sus­
taining democracies around the world? 
(g) What role do you see for community­
based policing techniques in future police 
training programs? 
I very much appreciate the opportunity to 
share with you some of my concerns about 
this increasingly important subject. I look 
forward to cooperating with you on adminis­
tration of justice issues as they affect East­
ern and Central Europe, and other regions as 
well. If you have any questions about this 
letter, please do not hesitate to have a mem­
ber of your staff call Martin Edwin Ander­
sen, my legislative assistant for foreign pol­
icy and defense at 224-8114. 
With every good wish, I remain, 
Sincerely, 
ALAN CRANSTON. 
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, 
Washington, DC, September 19, 1991. 
Hon. ALAN CRANSTON, 
U.S. Senate, 
Washington, DC. 
DEAR SENATOR CRANSTON: On behalf of the 
Department of Justice, I would like to re­
spond to your letter which raises questions 
with regard to the administration of justice 
and police training in the post Cold War Era. 
I apologize for any inconvenience our delay 
in responding may have caused you. 
Attorney General Thornburgh did experi­
ence a great growth in the incidents of re­
quests for assistance and training from 
abroad. He also recognized a growing reli­
ance by the Department of Justice on the co­
operation of foreign law enforcement organi­
zation in combating terrorism, drug traffick­
ing, money laundering and international fi­
nancial fraud. To facilitate this work, he 
formed an Office of International Affairs in 
the Department (a copy of his order is at­
tached). We appreciate your interest in and 
support for our efforts to improve the effec­
tiveness of international law enforcement. 
I would like to respond to the particular 
questions you have raised. 
1. In what ways might we improve the ad­
ministration of justice, including police de­
velopment, in new and emerging democ­
racies? 
Answer: The move to democratization re­
quires reforms in most public institutions, 
including those charged with the enforce­
ment and administration of justice. The 
rules of law and conditions for a democracy 
are such that effective administration of jus­
tice is essential if a new democracy is to sur­
vive. If crimes are seen as going unpunished 
for failure of effective investigation and 
criminals are perceived to act with impu­
nity, the rule of law and conditions for de­
mocracy are undermined. Weak law enforce­
ment institutions can threaten the viability 
of the democratization process. It is critical 
that the public have confidence in the crimi­
nal justice system of their country. 
There are several major areas that can be 
addressed when determining ways to 
strengthen judicial systems and profes­
sionalize the police. 
(A) Enhance judicial and prosecutorial ca­
pabilities: 
(1) Improvement of the administration of 
justice depends heavily on judges, and pros­
ecutors as well as police. Judicial training, 
court administration, and improved access 
to justice not only eases costly delays, but 
also builds the public's confidence in the ju­
dicial process. 
(B) Improve coordination between judges, 
prosecutors, and the police: 
(1) The institutional responsibilities of 
each of the judicial components must be 
carefully defined in a new democracy. Each 
component must learn more about the other 
and how they can better coordinate and 
interact. This is especially crucial in the in­
vestigation of a crime where lack of coordi­
nation can jeopardize an entire investiga­
tion. 
(C) Improve technical skills of the police 
to deal with problems of crime prevention 
and investigation: 
(1) In a democracy the public security task 
falls on the police. They must be seen as a 
protector of the citizens and not of the rul­
ing authority. Because most of the public se­
curity responsibilities in emerging democ­
racies were originally assigned to the mili­
tary, who answered directly to the ruling au­
thority, most police forces never received 
basic police instruction and therefore lack 
proper skills in investigation, especially 
criminal investigation. 
(D) Design safeguards against human­
rights abuses: 
(1) A professional police force should in­
spire confidence in law enforcement officials 
and judicial institutions. These officials and 
institutions are responsible for guaranteeing 
fundamental rights, freedom and security. It 
is essential in the institutional development 
of every public security force in every de­
mocracy, that an instrument be created to 
ensure that allegations against the police 
are investigated and the citizenry is advised 
of the outcome of these investigations. 
(2) Emphasis should be placed on respect 
for human rights during police training and 
emerging democracies. By doing so, police 
professionalism will increase and improve 
human rights records in these countries. 
(E) Law enforcement institution building: 

--- PDF PAGE 22 ---
4512 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
(1) Consideration should be given to the de­
velopment and implementation of training 
programs in new democracies. This includes 
the development of curricula, and the cre­
ation of police academies separate from the 
military. 
2. Concerning the effects of the restrictions 
mandated by Section 660 of the Foreign As­
sistance Act on international police train­
ing. 
(a) How many exemptions currently exist 
to the Section 660 rule? Given various pro­
grams and exemptions, does this confuse re­
cipient governments or agencies about the 
purpose of U.S. police training? For example, 
the International Criminal Investigative 
Training Assistance Program (ICIT AP) is 
prohibited from teaching surveillance tech­
niques, while other programs are permitted 
to give this type of instruction as part of 
their mission. 
Answer: Nearly all assistance given by the 
U.S. Government to foreign law enforcement 
agencies must be exempted by Congress from 
Section 660 of the Foreign Assistance Act. 
Therefore, separate exemptions exist for 
each U.S. policy initiative designed to im­
prove an aspect of policing in a foreign coun­
try. Examples are: Narcotics training, anti­
terrorism training, criminal investigative 
training, past International Military Edu­
cation and Training (!MET) for police in El 
Salvador and Honduras and current !MET for 
Panama and the Caribbean region, as well as 
general police training to Panama. The 
above is not a complete list of exemptions to 
Section 660, but does represent the majority 
of U.S. assistance to foreign police. 
A great deal of effort goes into coordinat­
ing these programs both in Washington and 
in the various U.S. embassies; therefore, any 
new initiatives should be an expansion of the 
above programs, rather than a new exemp­
tion. 
(b) How different is the context in which 
police training is currently carried out from 
that of the 1960's and 1970's? Related to this, 
what kinds oversight mechanisms do you be­
lieve are necessary to prevent the allega­
tions of abuse which occurred in the past? 
And how might police training programs be 
structured so as to anticipate effectively the 
objections to international police training 
which resulted in the passage of Section 660? 
Answer: A 1989 Congressional Research 
Service report stated the following concern­
ing the Agency for International Develop­
ment's Office of Public Safety (OPS), which 
provided police training during the 1960's and 
1970's: 
The U.S. based training programs targeted 
mid-level supervisory officers and senior pol­
icy and program personnel, whereas in-coun­
try programs trained lower ranking police 
officers. Al though curricula differed accord­
ing to the targeted trainees, most programs 
had the dual objectives of institution build­
ing and counterinsurgency training. The 
technical curriculum of the OPS program­
emphasizing police management and oper­
ations-included training in logistics, police 
lab techniques, personnel, police community 
relations, recordkeeping, criminal investiga­
tion, patrolling, maintenance and interroga­
tion skills. The counterinsurgency courses 
emphasized the nature of counterinsurgency, 
communist ideology, riot control, pistols and 
weapons use, photography and police com­
munications, chemical munitions, and bomb 
disposal. 
OPS also provided law enforcement equip­
ment to foreign police units. Equipment 
transfers fell into four categories: tele­
communications, transportation, weapons 
and riot control, and general equipment (e.g. 
textbooks, training aids, criminal investiga­
tion equipment). Most equipment transfers 
were communication and transportation 
items. 
[Alan K. Yu. U.S. Assistance for Foreign 
Police Forces (Congressional Research Serv­
ice)-Li brary of Congress, July 18, 1989.] 
ICITAP's role since its inception in 1986 
has been to provide assistance to countries 
in Latin American and the Caribbean in an 
effort to strengthen the administration of 
justice in those countries. Specifically, 
ICIT AP develops and implements: 
(1) Programs to enhance professional capa­
bilities to carry out investigative and foren­
sic functions conducted under judicial or 
prosecutorial control; 
(2) Programs to assist in the development 
of academic instruction and curricula for 
training law enforcement personnel; and 
(3) Programs to improve the administra­
tive and management capabilities of law en­
forcement agencies, especially their capa­
bilities relating to career development, per­
sonnel evaluation, and internal discipline 
procedures. 
The heart of ICITAP's work is teaching 
basic techniques solely and immediately as­
sociated with the conduct of criminal inves­
tigations. In addition, ICITAP has developed 
courses for judges and prosecutors, with the 
objective of providing them a basic under­
standing of investigative techniques they 
can employ in directing investigations. 
Judges and prosecutors regularly participate 
in skills courses with t}+e police, as well as 
receiving their own training from ICITAP. 
Another central effort is the enhancement of 
communication and coordination among the 
components of the criminal justice sector; 
the opportunity for high level discussions 
and exchange of views has been provided 
through regional and national conferences. 
A major ICITAP theme in all the works 
undertaken is the value and necessity of 
physical evidence in the investigation and 
adjudication of crimes. The overall objective 
of ICITAP's forensic science development is 
to create full service crime laboratories, ef­
fective fingerprint repositories, competent 
forensic pathology, and equipped and pro­
ficient crime scene processing teams to sup­
port criminal investigations. 
Institution building is an implicit benefit 
of improved criminal investigative ability 
and increased professionalism by the police 
and other entities within the criminal jus­
tice system. !CIT AP's approach is to offer a 
gamut of courses directly linked to criminal 
investigations and offered in-country to all 
levels of officer corps police personnel and 
judicial and prosecutive professionals. Tech­
nical assistance, forensic internships, and 
equipment donations to police laboratories 
and crime scene processing units are focused 
on specific areas of forensic activity. Except 
in Panama, general policing matters are out­
side ICIT AP's purview, as are any issues re­
lated to counterinsurgency or civil disorder 
control. 
Past police assistance and training pro­
grams, most notably the OPS, fell victim to 
allegations of abuse in part because any po­
lice assistance program is automatically 
open to such allegations by the very nature 
of police activities-the bestowing upon an 
agency of government the right to use force 
when necessary to maintain order and public 
safety. In addition, because one of the stated 
goals of the OPS was the deterrence of ac­
tivities deemed hostile to the interest of the 
United States-including the spread of revo­
lutionary movements-resources and person-
nel were allocated to address a 
"counterinsurgency" aspect of police train­
ing, causing a public and media perception 
that OPS conducted intelligence activities. 
In the current world situation where pov­
erty and illegal drug activity overshadow 
ideology, the nature of police training and 
assistance programs has changed. Ideological 
objectives have been replaced by the need for 
professional, competent law enforcement. 
These programs must strive to be as acces­
sible to States. Police assistance programs 
must be coordinated at a policy and proce­
dural level with a single decision-making 
organ to avoid replicating some efforts while 
overlooking others. 
In addition, these activities should be 
maintained in the hands of public institu­
tions, such as an executive department, sub­
ject to full and complete Executive and Con­
gressional review. Periodic accountability 
reviews conducted by the department's own 
internal audit/inspection service and the 
General Accounting Office are required to 
ensure that the stated mission and actual 
practice are the game. Above all, such pro­
grams must be conducted in the full light of 
day with full regard for the human rights as­
pect of policing. 
(c) Currently, most administration of jus­
tice programs carried out under Section 534 
of the Foreign Assistance Act are adminis­
tered by the Agency for International Devel­
opment. The police training and assistance 
component under Section 534 has been re-del­
egated to the State Department, which allo­
cate funds to the Department of Justice to 
carry out such programs. There have been 
doubts expressed about AID's ability to 
carry out administration of justice pro­
grams. There have been suggestions that all 
international justice assistance programs be 
placed under the supervision of the Depart­
ment of Justice. What is your assessment 
about such proposals? If it is positive, how 
would Justice Department leadership in this 
field result in better and more effective pro­
grams? 
Answer: Both the Department of Justice 
and the Agency for International Develop­
ment (AID) can point to historical accounts 
of criminal justice training. AID managed 
the Office of Public Safety and The Law and 
Development Program. Within the Depart­
ment of Justice, the FBI has trained foreign 
police officers at its academy since 1936 and 
DEA has had a strong narcotics training pro­
gram for foreign officers for . the past two 
decades. 
The Department of Justice takes pride in 
having worked with the Department of State 
and AID in the Administration of Justice 
program and stands ready to make available 
the many in-house resources it has to 
strengthen criminal justice systems in devel­
oping nations. These include the Office of 
International Affairs, the FBI, DEA, ICITAP, 
Bureau of Prisons, U.S. Marshals Service, 
the Advocacy Institute, Immigration and 
Nationalization Service, Border Patrol, the 
Bureau of Justice Administration, the Bu­
reau of Justice Statistics and the National 
Institute of Justice. 
(d) In your view, how successful a program 
is the International Criminal Investigative 
Training and Assistance Program? Is 
ICITAP, as currently structured, capable of 
carrying out programs on a worldwide scale? 
If not, what changes are needed to allow it to 
respond to grow.Ing demand for its services 
outside Central and South America? 
Answer: !CIT AP has proven to be a very 
successful program. It began in FY 1986 with 
a budget of Sl.5 million and a permanent 

--- PDF PAGE 23 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4513 
staff of four; now a permanent staff of 31, 
contract staff of 40, and some 60 consultants 
carry out a 20 million dollar program 
throughout Latin America and the Carib­
bean. ICITAP's accomplishments have been 
praised by officials of the State Department 
and foreign governments. 
The current structure provides ICITAP 
with the flexibility to expand or contract 
quickly in response to international develop­
ments. For example, three months after the 
Justice Department received its initial allo­
cation of funds from State for the Panama 
program, ICITAP had a staff of six working 
out of the U.S. Embassy in Panama City im­
plementing a detailed operational plan that 
ICITAP had developed. ICITAP takes justifi­
able pride in being an unbureaucratic, quick­
response team of professionals, and could 
successfully employ its proven techniques in 
other regions of the world if authorized to do 
so. 
(e) What is the current U.S. law enforce­
ment presence in Eastern and Central Eu­
rope? How many legal attache posts are 
there in American embassies there? If there 
is a need for more, what mission(s) do you 
see them performing? How many legal at­
taches are there worldwide, and how do they 
acquire their expertise? What plans are cur­
rently being made to strengthen any per­
ceived gaps in law enforcement efforts in the 
region by the administration? 
Answer: There is currently no U.S. law en­
forcement presence in Eastern Europe. In 
Central Europe the law enforcement pres­
ence (sworn officers) is as follows: 
Austria: DEA (3), Customs (2). 
Germany: DEA (7), Customs (7), FBI (5). 
Switzerland: DEA (3), FBI (2). 
There is a greater need for additional legal 
attache posts in Eastern and Central Europe 
as well as in other parts of the world. As 
technology and modern transportation 
render an "ever shrinking world," it is in­
creasingly important that DOJ be rep­
resented in the major foreign capitals in 
order to effectively counter international 
crime and terrorism. 
In connection with the FBI's international 
mission and due to its standing within the 
international law enforcement community, 
the FBI continues to receive numerous re­
quests for assistance on investigative, train­
ing, and technical issues. Many foreign gov­
ernment officials, including those of former 
Eastern bloc nations, have expressed an in­
terest in having permanent FBI representa­
tion in their countries to enhance both the 
level of cooperation and their own agency's 
professionalism. 
Currently there are 18 FBI Legal Attache 
(Legat) posts located in major U.S. embas­
sies worldwide. These posts are staffed by 46 
Legats and Assistant Legats and 41 office as­
sistants. With regard to Europe, the State 
Department has recently approved a Legat 
post for Vienna. It is envisioned that this 
would be a regional post with responsibility 
also for Hungary and Czechoslovakia. 
All Legats are experienced FBI agents with 
managerial and operational expertise. This 
expertise is derived primarily from their 
work-related background in foreign counter­
intelligence, counterterrorism, drugs, orga­
nized crime, and white collar crime. They re­
ceive additional training as needed before 
they leave for their posting, such as lan­
guage training and State Department brief­
ings. 
The Department of Justice is currently ex­
amining law enforcement issues in Eastern 
Europe in an effort to determine how the 
U.S. can better assist these countries and es-
tablish viable civilian law enforcement agen­
cies which will observe the rule of law. Last 
December the Attorney General visited Hun­
gary and Bulgaria. He also had a number of 
meetings in Washington with his counter­
parts from Eastern Europe. We still have 
much to learn, but these meetings have pro­
vided valuable insights to the problems these 
countries are facing with law enforcement 
and the evolution to the rule of law. The par­
allels between Latin America and Eastern 
Europe are evident and the ICITAP model is 
ideally suited to be utilized in fostering this 
evolution. 
(f) If the Department of Justice were to be 
giuen a larger role in the area of inter­
national administration of justice programs, 
what efforts do you foresee it making to help 
host countries make a transition from mili­
tary-led to civilian-run law enforcement, 
given the fact that, as has been noted by 
Congress, the separation of the military 
from civilian law enforcement functions has 
historically been a critical element in sus­
taining democracies around the world? 
Answer: If the Department of Justice were 
given a larger role in the international ad­
ministration of justice programs, it could 
bring considerable expertise to those pro­
grams, over and above the criminal inves­
tigation expertise that has been provided for 
the past five years. As you know, the Depart­
ment of Justice has substantial expertise in 
additional areas such as judicial protection; 
prosecution; witness protection; corrections; 
civil litigation; immigration; resolution of 
racial and ethnic conflicts; juvenile justice 
programs; justice statistics, etc. 
In addition, outside the aegis of adminis­
tration of justice as it is currently struc­
tured, the Department of Justice has exper­
tise in drug enforcement and counter-terror­
ism. Also, it is currently providing some 
training and assistance which is funded by 
the State Department's International Nar­
cotics Matters and Anti-Terrorism Assist­
ance program. 
(g) What role do you see for community­
based policing techniques in future police 
training program? 
Answer: Most of the countries in which 
ICITAP works are emerging democracies 
with a legacy of military domination and 
subsequent involvement in policing activi­
ties. There is a general distrust of the police 
because of their connection with the mili­
tary, be it direct or indirect. The police tend 
to be authoritarian and lack social sensitiv­
ity, frequently incurring allegations of 
human rights abuses. For the most part, 
community/police relations are non-existent 
and the police lack credibility. ICIT AP has 
found police services are incident-driven, 
with little thought or consideration given to 
crime prevention and reduction. 
In general, because many police organiza­
tions are incident-driven, they react to 
crime rather than seeking the reasons why 
crimes occur. With the advent of commu­
nity-based and problem-solving policing, de­
partments in the United States have begun 
to explore and implement "proactive" polic­
ing techniques (a departure from traditional 
methods which have isolated the police from 
the community and narrowly defined their 
focus). Both community-based and problem­
solving policing ideologies promote methods 
to prevent crime and address the issues that 
cause crime which is an important consider­
ation in third-world countries where finan­
cial and human resources are scarce. 
Through its programs, ICITAP has at­
tempted to instill a greater awareness for 
the development of programs which will en-
hance the relationship between the police 
and the community and create mechanisms 
that will enable the police to take a more 
proactive stance in addressing crime. These 
changes require a fundamental decentraliza­
tion of authority and a greater awareness of 
the underlying conditions which cause 
crime, including the characteristics of the 
people involved (victims, suspects, public-at­
large; the social setting) in which these peo­
ple interact in the physical environment and 
the way the public deals with these condi­
tions in general. 
Most police organizations are not prepared 
to accept change or to implement programs 
aimed at crime prevention and reduction be­
cause this constitutes threat to the status 
quo and a perceived loss of power and con­
trol. However, there is a growing tendency to 
involve the community in policing to gain 
broader public support, develop information 
regarding trends and patterns within a com­
munity, and thus anticipate potential prob­
lems. Police organizations are slowly rec­
ognizing that to effectively carry out their 
mandate and thus survive as an institution, 
they must have a supportive public. An ex­
ample of this can be found in Panama where 
the National Police are in the process of 
changing the traditional stationary guard 
positions to police beats in order to get the 
police on the streets where they can interact 
with the public. Also, community relation 
offices have been created within metropoli­
tan Panama City precincts to encourage bet­
ter relations with the community. Neighbor­
hood Watch Programs are also being consid­
ered. As a result of these programs, ICIT AP 
is beginning to look at its total program 
with a view toward adapting community­
based techniques to other areas. 
This, however, involves a substantial 
change from current practice requirrng 
broad-based public involvement. To strike a 
balance between the mission to provide po­
lice services while protecting and respecting 
civil liberties, ICITAP courses and technical 
assistance programs promote respect for 
human rights and the needs of the commu­
nity. Since the community-based and prob­
lem-solving policing require closer contact 
with the community it serves, public con­
fidence in the police must be instilled in 
order for this to work. Ultimately, successful 
implementation of community-based and 
problem-solving techniques will render the 
police more efficient and effective in its ef­
forts to reduce crime. For this to occur, 
those persons in · positions to effect change 
must agree that changes are necessary and 
also the challenge and the difficulties in­
volved in strengthening the ties between the 
police and the community. 
Again let me express the Department's 
gratitude for your interest in supporting 
international law enforcement assistance 
and training. If my office may be of further 
assistance to you or your staff please let me 
know. 
Sincerely, 
W. LEE RAWLS, 
Assistant Attorney General. 
U.S. SENATE, 
Washington, DC, April 12, 1991. 
Mr. CHARLES A. BOWSHER, 
Comptroller General, U.S. General Accounting 
Office, Washington, DC. 
DEAR CHARLES: We are writing you today 
to ask that your office conduct a comprehen­
sive review of U.S. security assistance pro­
grams in the post-Cold War period. The 
world-wide democratic revolution and the 
collapse of Soviet expansionism make this 

--- PDF PAGE 24 ---
4514 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENA TE March 5, 1992 
effort both timely and significant. As a re­
cent State Department policy paper noted: 
"For over forty years the specter of inter­
national communism weighed heavily on the 
structures and priorities of United States 
economic and security assistance. This glob­
al threat to world freedom has finally col­
lapsed. In its wake is the spreading world­
wide recognition that freedom can only be 
sustained by governments whose legitimacy 
rests firmly on the expressed consent of the 
governed; that are themselves agents and 
protectors of individual rights; and that are 
capable of sustaining an environment condu­
cive to equal economic and political oppor­
tunity for all citizens." 
This fast-changing world context provides 
a framework with which our international 
security assistance must be evaluated. The 
global democratic revolution has put in­
creased emphasis on issues of civilian con­
trol of the military and the need to provide 
clear-cut and achievable missions for a na­
tion's security forces. 
There are several areas of interest we 
would like the GAO to examine. These in­
clude: the mission, purpose and administra­
tion of the International Military Education 
and Training (IMET) program; the intent 
and efficacy of current restrictions on civil­
ian police training; the career development 
of U.S. military personnel assigned to inter­
national security assistance programs; the 
scope, structure and efficacy of existing ad­
ministration of justice programs; the com­
patibility of security assistance training 
with U.S. models of civil-military and civil­
police relations, and human rights concerns. 
In preparing the report we encourage your 
office to consult civilian governmental agen­
cies, legislative committees, and non-govern­
mental organizations with expertise in the 
areas of security issues, civil-military rela­
tions, police training, administration of jus­
tice and human rights in several key coun­
tries. 
The following are the specific questions we 
would like to see addressed on each issue: 
PURPOSES AND GOALS OF SECURITY ASSISTANCE 
PROGRAMS IN THE 1990'S 
To what extent have U.S. security assist­
ance programs been subject to changes in the 
past decade to reflect changing world reali­
ties such as the end of the Cold war; the im­
portance of world-wide trends towards de­
mocratization; the primacy of civilian politi­
cal control over the military and security 
forces, and the emergence of new inter­
national criminal networks such as the drug 
cartels? Is military assistance channeled 
through civilian authorities, rather than re­
lying on military-to-military relationships 
as we have in the past? If so, how have these 
changes been effected? Do security assist­
ance programs reflect fundamental strengths 
of the U.S.'s own successful experience in 
civil-military relations, such as the dif­
ference between internal security and na­
tional defense? 
Please analyze these questions as they af­
fect Africa; Asia; Latin America and Eastern 
Europe. 
Have security assistance programs been 
cost-effective? What reforms have been in­
troduced, based on program monitoring to 
make these programs more cost effective? 
ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE AND POLICE 
TRAINING 
(a) Is there a coherent policy for improving 
the administration of justice, including po­
lice development, in new and emerging de­
mocracies? 
(2) Please evaluate the effects of the re­
strictions mandated by Section 660 of the 
Foreign Assistance Act on international po­
lice training. 
(a) How many exemptions currently exist 
to the Section 660 rule? Please list them. 
Given various programs and exemptions, 
does this confuse recipient governments or 
agencies about the purposes of U.S. police 
training? For example, International Crimi­
nal Investigative Training and Assistance 
Program (ICITAP) is prohibited from teach­
ing surveillance techniques, while other pro­
grams have to teach this to carry out their 
mission. 
(b) How different is the context in which 
police training is currently carried out from 
that of the 1960s or 1970s? 
(c) How might police training programs be 
structured so as to anticipate effectively the 
objections to international police training 
which resulted in the passage of Section 660? 
(d) Do Section 660 restrictions on police 
training have the effect of encouraging a 
larger or more comprehensive internal secu­
rity role by a nation's armed forces? 
(3) Currently, most administration of jus­
tice programs carried out under Section 534 
of the Foreign Assistance Act are adminis­
tered by the Agency for International Devel­
opment. The police training and assistance 
component under Section 534 has been re-del­
egated to the State Department, which allo­
cates funds to the Department of Justice to 
carry out such programs. There have been 
doubts expressed about AID's ability to 
carry out administration of justice pro­
grams. There have also been suggestions 
that all international justice assistance pro­
grams be placed under the supervision of the 
Department of Justice or some other ar­
rangement. We would like GAO to look at 
this debate and to make its own evaluation. 
Among the questions that should be ad­
dressed are the following: 
(a) Does AID have sufficient personnel it 
can draw upon with experience in criminal 
justice or democratic development to ad­
dress the growing demands for administra­
tion of justice programs worldwide? One crit­
icism is that AID does not have staff skilled 
in prosecution; court administration; crimi­
nal case development and monitoring, and 
criminal and legal procedures. Does this af­
fect their ability to develop and monitor 
such aspects of administration of justice? 
(b) Related to question (3)(a), is AID 
equipped institutionally to handle sensitive 
political development issues such as admin­
istration of justice? One criticism that is 
sometimes heard is that AID does not report 
from the field on political, institutional and 
legal issues, limiting itself to accounting for 
disbursements made. Is this valid? 
(c) Is AID able to react swiftly to breaking 
opportunities in the administration of jus­
tice area? Some critics complain that it took 
more than one year after Operation Just 
Cause for AID to develop and authorize a 
project paper for the justice sector in Pan­
ama. Thus, the criticism runs, while con­
centrating on project development, the anti­
quated and overloaded, Panamanian justice 
system received no technical assistance, 
training, etc. 
(d) AID is also criticized for producing 
project papers that obligate the agency for 
five year periods and therefore do not allow 
for flexibility to take advantage quickly and 
effectively of new developments in the field. 
Is this accurate? 
(e) To what extent are AID project man­
agers sensitive to successful criminal justice 
development efforts in other countries? Do 
the project managers in the 'field have the 
technical knowledge required for justice sec­
tor activities? 
(f) Are AID accounting and reporting re­
quirements concerning institutional grants 
and loans suitably tailored to the possibili­
ties of judiciary and justice sector min­
istries? 
(4) What arguments might be made for 
transferring all administration of justice and 
police training programs to Justice Depart­
ment jurisdiction? What are the pros and 
cons of doing so? 
(5) How successful a program is the Inter­
national Criminal Investigative Training 
and Assistance Program (ICIT AP)? 
(a) What have been the comments made 
about ICITAP in on-going U.S. government 
reviews of programs in the criminal justice 
sector? 
(b) What comments or criticisms have been 
made of the ICITAP program by: 
(1) countries receiving ICITAP assistance, 
and 
(2) local and international human rights 
organizations? 
(c) Is ICITAP, as currently structured, ca­
pable of carrying out programs on a world­
wide scale? If not, what changes are needed 
to allow it to respond to growing demands 
for its services outside Central and South 
America? 
(6) What is the current U.S. law enforce­
ment presence in Eastern Europe? How many 
legal attache posts are there in American 
embassies in Eastern and Central Europe? 
How many are there in Western Europe? How 
many are there worldwide and who do they 
acquire their experience? What plans are 
being made to strengthen any perceived gaps 
in law enforcement efforts in the region by 
the United States? 
INTERNATIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION AND 
TRAINING (!MET) 
(1) What changes have been made in the 
IMET program to make it better reflect the 
changing realities of the post-Cold War 
world? Please include in the analysis 
changes in curriculum and those in the coun­
try selection process for IMET recipients. 
With a lessening of tensions in a world, a 
trend which is likely to continue for some 
times, what is the rationale for giving IMET 
to the number of countries that currently ri;i­
ceive it? 
(2) Current IMET training provides for 
coursework in civic action. Some have criti­
cized U.S. efforts to promote civic action 
programs in foreign n+ilitaries, saying such 
training tends to politicize the military and 
makes it compete with civilian political 
leaders for scarce financial and technical re­
sources. Please evaluate the appropriateness 
of these complaints in Africa, Latin America 
and Asia. How much civic action is taught to 
IMET recipients? Which countries' recipients 
receive such training? What evaluations 
have been made of the effectiveness of these 
programs in those countries participating in 
civic action prog-rams? 
(3) There have been proposals to extend 
training in defense and national security is­
sues to qualified civilians in emerging de­
mocracies through the IMET program. It is 
argued that by doing so, the ability of elect­
ed officials in these countries to oversee 
their own military establishments will be in­
creased. What programs are currently offered 
in IMET, or through other U.S. government 
agencies, that seek to meet this goal? What 
are the advantages and the drawbacks of 
having the IMET program more involved in 
this area? 
(4) To what extent, if any, does IMET 
training offer to its recipients explicit expo­
sure to the following lessons in the proper J 
management of civil-military relations in 
the United States: 

--- PDF PAGE 25 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4515 
(a) that the control of the military budget 
by Congress ensures a close collaborative re­
lationship between civilian political author­
ity and the leadership of the armed forces; 
(b) that there is close interaction and con­
tact between civilians and military, and be­
tween the four services, throughout our com­
mand and control structure; 
(c) that scores of civilian-run non-govern­
mental agencies help to inform and to shape 
military policy, and 
(d) that the military has remained at the 
margins of partisan politics in part because 
its role in internal security has always been 
sharply circumscribed. 
How are these lessons conveyed to IMET 
recipients? 
Should foreign military sales (FMS) be 
shifted from the foreign assistance budget to 
the defense budget? 
CAREER DEVELOPMENT OF MILITARY PERSON­
NEL DETAILED TO SECURITY ASSISTANCE 
POSTS 
Some concern has been expressed that 
American military personnel assigned to se­
curity assistance posts suffer from morale 
problems relating to their jobs and career 
paths. One worry is a perceived hostility to 
security assistance programs in general by 
sectors of the armed forces. Related to this 
is a feeling of some working in the field that 
their participation in this area negatively 
impacts upon their possibilities for profes­
sional advancement. Who is selected for se­
curity assistance assignments, and how? 
What problems or career anxieties exist, if 
any, among military personnel carrying out 
these functions? What efforts are currently 
being made to assure security assistance per­
sonnel that their efforts are an important 
military task? How do career advancement 
patterns for those involved in · security as­
sistance programs compare with other career 
patterns in the four U.S. armed services? 
ANTI-NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT EFFORTS 
The effect of anti-narcotics assistance on 
democratic institutions and practices in new 
and emerging democracies has also been 
questioned. This issue is of particular con­
cern in the nations of the Andean region, as 
well as in Guatemala. 
In Section 1009 of the Defense Authoriza­
tion legislation for FY91 Congress made two 
findings on this issue: First, that the separa­
tion of military and civilian law enforce­
ment functions has historically been a criti­
cal element in democracies around the 
world, including the United States. And sec­
ond, that there is a need to determine wheth­
er the current policies of the United States 
unduly emphasize military assistance to An­
dean countries rather that aid to civilian law 
enforcement entities carrying out anti-drug 
efforts in those countries. 
We would like the following questions ad­
dressed: 
(1) How does the role of host country mili­
taries differ from that of police forces in re­
gard to narcotics enforcement? What efforts 
are being made to help host countries where 
the military is involved in anti-narcotics ef­
forts make a. transition to civilian law en­
forcement, given the fact that-as noted by 
Congress-the separation of military and ci­
vilian law enforcement functions has histori­
cally been a critical element in democracies 
around the world? 
(2) In what ways are host country police 
forces unable to address specific changes 
that have been prompted by narcotics pro­
duction and trafficking in each country? 
(3) What kinds and amounts of police and 
military assistance are being offered to the 
governments of Peru, Colombia, Bolivia and 
Guatemala by third countries to help fight 
narcotics production and trafficking? In 
what ways does the U.S. government coordi­
nate its efforts with the efforts of these 
other countries? 
(4) What guarantees does the U.S. govern­
ment require to ensure that U.S. material is 
used to further U.S. anti-narcotics goals, as 
distinguished from host country counter-in­
surgency goals? What is the relationship be­
tween anti-narcotics and counter-insurgency 
activities as carried out by the militaries of 
Peru, Colombia and Guatemala? 
HUMAN RIGHTS 
Finally, the protection of human rights 
continues to be a primary concern in Con­
gress when dealing with security assistance 
issues . Therefore, we would like the GAO to 
address the following questions: 
(1) What has been the impact of U.S. mili­
tary training and U.S. military assistance on 
the propensity of host country governments 
to investigate and prosecute violations of 
human rights by recipient government 
forces? To what degree have officers of host 
country security forces been punished for 
their crimes by competent government au­
thorities? 
(2) To what degree is training on humani­
tarian law-war crimes-incorporated into 
security assistance training programs? How 
many recipients of U.S. security assistance 
regularly teach humanitarian law to their 
own military and security forces? Given that 
in international and U.S. law human rights 
is a different concept than "humanitarian 
law," how is this difference reflected in U.S. 
training programs, both of Department of 
Defense security assistance personnel and of 
host country trainees? 
(3) To what degree are human rights incor­
porated in security assistance training pro­
grams and curricula? Please give specifics: 
time spent on the issue relative to total 
training time, content of human rights edu­
cation, and training of Department of De­
fense personnel in human rights issues in 
preparation for teaching activities. Also, 
please differentiate the information on the 
human rights component of training aimed 
at Department of Defense security assistance 
personnel from that aimed at host nation 
trainees. 
Thank you very much in advance for your 
attention to this request. We ask that you 
give this project a high priority given its im­
portance as a national security issue. If you 
have any questions, please do not hesitate to 
have a member of your staff call Martin 
Edwin Andersen at 224-8114. 
Sincerely, 
ALAN CRANSTON. 
DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN. 
THOMAS A. DASCHLE . 
RICHARD LUGAR. 
BROCK ADAMS. 
Mr. CRANSTON. Mr. President, I 
yield the floor. 
OMNIBUS CRIME CONTROL ACT­
CONFERENCE REPORT 
The Senate continued with the con­
sideration of the conf ere nee report. 
Mr. SEYMOUR. Mr. President, I rise 
·to address the conference report to 
H.R. 3371, the Violent Crime Control 
Act. 
I listened earlier to the distinguished 
Senator from Delaware yesterday with 
great interest. I want to take a mo-
ment to respond to some of the re­
marks that he made, especially with 
respect to habeas corpus because, after 
all, what this conference report is 
about, to a large extent, is a fight over 
the reform of Federal habeas corpus. 
As my colleagues know all too well, 
the Federal habeas corpus process is a 
statutory right given to convicted 
criminals to ensure that the judicial 
process that led to their conviction was 
fair. But for death row inmates, habeas 
corpus means endless delay, volumes of 
litigation, and the joy of seeing the 
legal system work against the wishes 
of the juries or the judges that had sen­
tenced them to death. 
For the families and friends of slain 
crime victims, habeas corpus means no 
finality, endless pain, and the horror of 
a legal system that fails to impose so­
ciety's ultimate sentence. 
The bottom line is simple, Mr. Presi­
dent. The death penalty cannot be en­
forced under the current habeas corpus 
procedures. 
In the last 8 years, each Congress has 
enacted major anticrime, or antidrug 
bills, and all are necessary in our bat­
tles against violent crime and drug 
trafficking. But each of these crime 
bills, dodged the issue of habeas corpus 
reform, leaving it to the next Congress 
to make the tough choices on this 
issue. 
Almost a year ago, Mr. President, 
President Bush challenged this body 
and the House of Representatives that 
if in fact our troops could win a ground 
war in the Persian Gulf in 100 hours, 
then surely Congress could respond 
with an adequate crime bill in 100 days. 
That was almost a year ago. 
For our part here in the Senate, Mr. 
President, we mounted a strong bipar­
tisan majority vote that passed-true 
habeas reform-only to see in the con­
ference committee when representa­
tives from the Senate and representa­
tives from the House of Representa­
tives got together in the conference 
committee process, only to see that 
torn asunder, and to steamroll a con­
ference report that stripped the Sen­
ate's habeas provisions and replaced 
them with the House-passed procedures 
that are reform in name only. 
So what happened is, although we did 
our job here, we gave it away, we sold 
the store in conference committee. 
Just how bad is the conference re­
port's so-called habeas reform pack­
age? Mr. President, it is bad enough to 
reverse 14 years of responsible Supreme 
Court decisions, including the land­
mark Teague ruling, that limits end­
less delays and frivolous appeals in 
delay cases. In other words, it is a step 
backward. 
I will tell you this: It is bad enough 
to allow condemned prisoners to delay 
a full year before even applying for 
Federal habeas corpus. And it is bad 
enough to reject the Senate's proposal 
that habeas petitions for condemned 

--- PDF PAGE 26 ---
4516 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
criminals be limited to new claims 
that have not been fully and fairly 
heard in State courts. 
It is bad enough, Mr. President, to 
cause the attorney general of my 
State, the State of California, to an­
nounce that those provisions are "a 
fraud on the people of California and, 
most particularly, on the crime vic­
tims c;>f the State of California." 
In short, Mr. President, these provi­
sions contain enough loopholes, legal 
trap doors, and other broad definitions 
to promote new, unnecessary litiga­
tion, rather than finality and fairness 
for those not on death row. The habeas 
provisions represent an opportunity­
though many would argue it is re­
mote-it is an opportunity for them to 
walk the streets again. 
But rather than cut through the 
legalese, because I am not a lawyer, 
and I do not intend to imitate one, Mr. 
President, but let me give my col­
leagues an example of the problem I 
am talking about. 
For Californians, I sure do not need 
to recount the brutal murders commit­
ted by Charles Manson, Sirhan Sirhan, 
and the Onion Field killer, Gregory 
Powell. Californians know these names 
all too well. They are, in fact, the most 
notorious killers in California's his­
tory. 
In each case a jury of Californians de­
cided that these bloody and violent 
killers deserved nothing less than 
death. However, liberal judges said the 
death penalty was inappropriate, and 
Manson, Sirhan Sirhan, and Powell 
were all resentenced to life in prison. 
In other words, the thought was if they 
cannot be put to death then at least let 
them rot in prison. 
And those violent,' bloody killers 
have in fact remained there for 20 years 
now without any hope for release. That 
is until the conference report came to 
us. You see, Mr. President, the Senator 
from Utah has convincingly argued 
that these killers could file a new ha­
beas petition if the conference report's 
prov1s10ns reversing the Supreme 
Court's holdings on retroactivity were 
to become law. As we all know, for any 
violent offender not on death row, a ha­
beas petition represents not delay but 
a chance at freedom. 
The distinguished Senator from Dela­
ware has disputed this argument, offer­
ing his own legal views, and certainly I 
will not challenge him as a distin­
guished student of the law. But I am 
sorry. Even if there is the slightest 
possibility, Mr. President, the slightest 
possibility that this conference report 
would result in a murderer's release be­
cause of some new right not known at 
the time he was convicted, I am not 
going to take that risk. I will not take 
· that much risk to see a Charles Man­
son let loose to roam the streets of 
California or any other place in Amer­
ica. I do not think any of us here want 
to take that risk. 
It is my understanding that the at­
torney general of California, Dan Lun­
gren, agrees with the point made by 
the Senator from Utah. Now the citi­
zens of California know well and re­
spect the views of our State attorney 
general. He is also well respected by 
my colleagues here. His concerns are 
proof enough that there exists a seri­
ous problem in this conference report. 
There should not be differences of 
opinion on matters of this type. If any­
one disagrees on this kind of matter, it 
is so important that we should not pro­
ceed with the conference report even, 
as I said earlier, if there is the slight­
est possibility. The American people 
deserve no less and the people of Cali­
fornia will accept no less. 
Even though I . think the juries that 
sentenced Charles Manson, Sirhan Sir­
han, and Powell were right to begin 
with-and that is they should have had 
the death penalty-let us make sure 
they at least remain behind bars. Let 
us not provide the slightest oppor­
tunity for them to be out on the streets 
permitting them the opportunity to 
once again create mayhem and murder 
on our citizens. 
I think that we owe that, Mr. Presi­
dent, not only to the citizens we claim 
to represent, but, more importantly 
than that, we owe at least that much 
to the victims and to the families of 
those victims. 
So, despite all of this, there are those 
in the majority party that claim they 
have offered reform of the habeas sys­
tem. 
How can we call it reform after the 
arguments that I have made? Is there 
any Member of this U.S. Senate who 
would stand here and vote for some­
thing knowing that there was the 
slightest possibility that a murderer 
sentenced to life in prison could use 
this conference report, should it be­
come law, as a loophole to get out on 
the streets again? I do not think so. I 
cannot believe that is true. 
Although there are some that would 
disagree with what I have had to say­
and I respect their right, including the 
distinguished Senator from Delaware, 
to disagree with what I had to say-but 
unless we can agree unanimously it 
just seems to me that the prudent 
course is to not move ahead on this 
conference report based upon, for one 
reason, and that is the deformation of 
the reform, or the alleged reform, of 
the habeas system. 
How can we call it reform, Mr. Presi­
dent, when 31 of the Nation's attorneys 
general, 16 Republicans, 15 Democrats, 
concluded last November that the con­
ference report's habeas corpus provi­
sions were a sham? That is bipartisan; 
16 Republicans and 15 Democrats, at­
torneys general of 31 of our Nation's 
States. How can it be called reform 
when every district attorney, Demo­
crat and Republican alike, in my State, 
California, were united in an unprece-
dented show of support for the habeas 
corpus provisions before it got over 
into that conference committee and, as 
I said, was deformed in the process, 
stripped? 
California district attorneys also 
concluded that the conference reports 
habeas corpus provisions are worse, are 
worse, Mr. President, worse than cur­
rent law. Amazingly, amazingly the 
conferees found ways to make the cur­
rent system even more endless for 
death row inmates and harder to bear 
for a crime victim. 
If that is the case, I am sure that the 
323 inmates on California's death row­
yes, Mr. President, I said it correctly-
323 inmates on California's death row, 
they are going to have plenty of free 
time on their hands, if this conference 
report becomes law. 
Mr. President, I can understand that 
the Senator from Delaware does not 
think that the concerns of those 31 at­
torneys general across the Nation, nor 
the unanimous opinion of Republican 
and Democrat district attorneys in my 
State alike have indicated that they 
are not all that important. The Sen­
ator from Delaware certainly is enti­
tled to his opinion. But I have not seen 
in my years such unified support in my 
State of California for their concern 
about this conference report. 
I might add to the Senator from 
Delaware that if he thinks that there is 
not somebody out there that is con­
cerned beyond the attorneys general or 
beyond the district attorneys, let me 
challenge him to talk to the average 
Californian out on the street. I would 
suggest he start with Coleen Campbell. 
Coleen Campbell, who represents the 
family, the mother, of the victims, be­
came enraged with the fact that those 
323 inmates on death row could not be 
given full justice and receive the death 
penalty and so she joined with hun­
dreds and hundreds of thousands of 
citizens-not DA's, not attorneys gen­
eral, just common ordinary citizens-in 
overwhelmingly passing the crime vic­
tims initiative. And one of the key 
components of that initiative-this was 
only the third time, by the way, that 
an overwhelming vote was taken in 
California in strong support of a death 
penalty. That has not happened. So 
Coleen Campbell is in the process, as I 
speak, of contacting the distinguished 
Senator from Delaware to tell him 
there are a lot of people, Mr. President, 
a lot of little people who are very con­
cerned that in fact what the conference 
committee did to the habeas corpus re­
form provisions sets us back when in 
fact we led everybody to believe we 
were moving forward, that we were 
going to tighten it up, that we were 
going to have a death penalty that 
worked, one that would be enforced. 
No wonder, no wonder the American 
public is not just dissatisfied with the 
conduct and the activities of Congress, 
not just dissatisfied, but totally frus-

--- PDF PAGE 27 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4517 
trated and angry; They have every 
right to be angry. 
We told them when we passed that 
crime bill, and I went home to Califor­
nia and I told Californians that we 
have reformed habeas corpus, finally, 
and finally we would see the death pen­
alty carried out in our State, and one 
or more of those 323 that have sat there 
year in and year out would finally pay 
the price. And then to see the con­
ference committee strip those provi­
sions from this bill is disgusting. 
If you want to talk to somebody else 
in California, go talk to the friends and 
the families of the boys that were bru­
tally murdered by that thug, Robert 
Alton Harris, who sat on death row for 
more than 10 years-a decade-single­
handedly-making a mockery of the 
current habeas process, laughing up his 
sleeve because he had found a way, as 
so many others, hundreds of others, 
have found a way to manipulate the 
system, to cheat the juries and judges, 
who in a fair trial , found them guilty 
and sentenced them to death. They 
laughed up their sleeves at us. Ask the 
families of the victims who Robert 
Alton Harris, in cold-blooded fashion, 
murdered. Ask them how they feel 
about this. I will tell you, there would 
be little doubt they would tell you very 
strongly about their opposition. 
I would be happy to save the Senator 
from Delaware the problem of going to 
California and talking to citizens out 
there to see how they feel about this , 
and going beyond the Attorneys Gen­
eral-31-and all the DA's who , in Cali­
fornia , unanimously are opposed to 
this thing. I will save him that problem 
by merely recognizing how frustrated 
the people of my State of California 
are and understanding their frustra­
tion. They ask, why has there not been 
one death-row inmate received the 
death penalty in the State of California 
since 1967? 
Try to explain to the people in Cali ­
fornia why nationally only 3 percent of 
those sentenced to death since 1976 
have been executed. Try to justify to 
them why we should support a con­
ference report that makes it easier for 
a death row inmate to delay his sen­
tence. Try to tell them why the major­
ity party in the U.S. Senate will not 
let the death penalty be enforced. 
Yes; I said Californians are angry and 
frustrated. They have also lost faith. 
And I am not referring to California 's 
elected lawyers. I am talking about the 
law-abiding Californian. I am talking 
about the little person, the one that 
just goes about their work, day in, day 
out, continuing to pay their taxes ; the 
little person that leads a law-abiding 
life, does not cause anybody any prob­
lems, just goes through their life per­
forming as a responsible citizen, not 
making much mention or much cry or 
much to-do about anything. Try to tell 
them and justify to them why we 
should support a conference report that 
will, in fact, possibly send a Charles 
Manson back to the streets. 
Well, I do not think you can do that. 
I do not think you can justify it. I do 
not think you can explain it. I do not 
think you can def end it. Because it is 
wrong. They are fed up, and I am fed 
up. 
I do not need to remind my col­
leagues that the people of my State 
ousted two associate judges and the 
chief justice of the California Supreme 
Court. Now, that is drastic. That never 
had happened in our history. But the 
frustration level had gotten up to here. 
So Californians did what they could 
do-like good, law-abiding citizens al­
ways do what they can do-at the bal­
lot box. They took out their rage, they 
took out their anger, and they threw 
out of office two associate judges plus 
the chief justice of the State of Califor­
nia 's Supreme Court. 
Now, those that would support this 
conference committee report will be 
doing nothing more than California's 
Chief Justice Rose Bird did. They will 
be making the system even worse. 
They will be saying by their vote to 
every Californian , " Sorry, you can't 
enforce the death penalty. " The real 
title to this conference report should 
not be the Violent Crime Control Act. 
A better title would be " Rose Bird's 
Revenge Bill. " 
So let us be clear. The Democrats ' 
conference report does not reform the 
habeas process. It deforms it. Indeed, 
the Democrats are not kidding, Mr. 
President , when they say their con­
ference report is a tough crime bill. 
The problem is, it is tough on law en­
forcement. It is tough on crime vic­
tims. And it is tough on law-abiding 
citizens who want an enforceable death 
penalty. 
That is why this conference report is 
on a fast track to nowhere. That is why 
I joined with my good friends from 
South Carolina , Utah, and Kansas to 
introduce a new crime control bill that 
contains, Mr. President , the true ha­
beas reform provisions that we, in a bi­
partisan fashion, had passed last sum­
mer. 
We introduced this bill because we do 
not intend to duck nor destroy habeas 
reform. We are going to achieve it if we 
have to stand here until the Sun comes 
up and the Sun goes down ; day in, day 
out; week in , week out. We will not 
back away from this commitment. We 
have come too far. We have waited too 
long. Now is the time, and we are not 
going to let the time pass. We will seize 
this moment. 
We are not here-in this new version 
of the crime bill that we pa.ss-we are 
not here to just leave it to the next 
guys on duty. We will not just leave it 
to the 103d, 104th or 105th Congress to 
fix or to correct the harms that this 
conference report will cause. We are 
not going home and we are not going 
into the 1992 election saying: Hey , we 
got a crime bill, we really got tough on 
crime, when there is a hole big enough 
for a Mack truck on habeas reform to 
be driven through. 
We are not going to do that . We are 
here to say to crime victims and mem­
bers of law enforcement that we of the 
102d Congress intend to get the job 
done, and we are not going to leave 
until we do. We are here to put an end 
to the never ending, often frivolous ap­
peals that have made the death penalty 
a joke. It is nonexistent as punish- · 
ment. And those 323 inmates that have 
been sitting on death row in California 
since 1967 know damn well that is the 
truth. They laugh at us. 
Now, just as important to the new 
Crime Control Act introduced this 
week is the fact that it reaches out to 
help our dedicated cops on the beat. It 
contains $1 billion for grants to State 
and local law enforcement , including 
$150 million for programs to put more 
cops on the beat. Our new bill also con­
tains $345 million for our dedicated 
Federal law enforcement officers, as 
well as an additional $75 million for 
antiterrorist activities. 
And while I am on the subject of 
funding for law enforcement, let me 
point out that I understand why law 
enforcement groups wanted the con­
ference report passed . They need the 
money. 
And that is what they were respond­
ing to . There is a price , and we are not 
going to pay the price of giving away 
habeas corpus reform so that these dol­
lars-very important dollars--can flow 
to law enforcement. Given the fact 
that the conference report anyway is 
going nowhere fast, I am going to ask 
law enforcement which bill do they 
support now. And I know which bill 
they support because they were in 
strong support of the bipartisan bill 
that the U.S. Senate passed last sum­
mer before it got mangled and de­
stroyed and deformed in that con­
ference committee . 
The new Crime Control Act that we 
recently introduced also does not ig­
nore the worthwhile provisions that 
ended up in the conference committee's 
round file for no reason at all. They 
just stripped it clean. 
Those that support the conference re­
port will tell you that this is the most 
comprehensive crime legislation ever 
considered by Congress. Well , absent 
the comprehensive reforms made in the 
habeas process, the conference report is 
a glass half filled with reforms. The 
conferees, of course, would say, "Take 
a look at the part that is filled, do not 
worry about the part we emptied out, 
just take a look at what we left you. " 
I urge my colleagues to look at what 
was tossed out, and why was it tossed 
out? You ought to give a good reason 
for throwing some of the things out of 
that bill that were in this because we 
worked hard, here, in a bipartisan fash­
ion, to put them in there. Why did the 

--- PDF PAGE 28 ---
4518 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
conference committee throw them out? 
Why? Indeed, if I had to grade the con­
ference report, I would give it a "I," for 
"incomplete." 
For example, why did the conferees 
leave out a provision that I authored 
that makes a much-needed technical 
change in the Armed Career Criminals 
Act? This change was so strongly sup­
ported by both sides of the aisle in the 
Senate that it was passed by voice 
vote. What would it have done? It 
would have ensured that violent repeat 
offenders served the mandatory mini­
mum sentence of 15 years under the 
Armed Career Criminals Act. This pro­
vision had the strong support of local, 
State, and Federal law enforcement 
and had the bipartisan support of the 
California delegation, congressional 
delegation, and, in fact, was passed by 
voice vote of this body . But it was left 
out. Why was it thrown in the ashcan? 
The Senator from Delaware says that 
while this conference report sits idly 
by, crime continues to run rampant in 
the streets. Even if the conference re­
port was passed, which it is not going 
to be passed, crime would still run 
rampant in my State in large part due 
to the conferees' refusal to include that 
technical correction that I authored. 
So why did they leave it out? Because 
this is such a tough crime bill? I sug­
gest the opposite is true. 
Mr. President, why did the conferees 
fail to include important increases in 
penalties against those that criminally 
exploit our children? These provisions 
would have increased penalties for dis­
tributing drugs to minors, for traffick­
ing in drug-free zones, and would have · 
created a new offense-that I authored, 
Mr. President-that would strike at 
those who use minors, who use kids, to 
commit their crimes. In my State kids 
as young as 8 to 11 years old are being 
recruited to serve in drug gangs. The 
provisions that the conferees left out, 
they threw in the ashcan, would put 
those thugs who use and abuse kids to 
commit these kinds of crimes behind 
bars for a long, long time. 
But why were those provisions left 
out? Why would they throw them in 
the ashcan when, in fact, they would 
receive strong and broad partisan sup­
port of this body, the U.S. Senate? Why 
would they throw them out if they 
wanted a tough crime bill? And why 
did the conferees fail to include even 
their own House crime bill's provisions 
that doubled the maximum penalty for 
recidivist rapists, those who rape more 
than once, and other sex offenders? 
That provision was carried overwhelm­
ingly by majorities in both the House 
and the Senate. Why did they leave it 
out? 
I think we are beginning to get the 
answer to that question. They just did 
not want a tough crime bill. They 
wanted a label on it that made it look 
like a tough crime bill, but when you 
peek underneath it-nothing there. 
Why did the conferees fail to include 
another provision that I authored that 
was not too complicated? It was noth­
ing real dramatic, but a step that 
would impose fines on those who use il­
legal aliens to commit aggravated felo­
nies and then take the fines that we 
have collected and use them to identify 
and deport other criminal aliens after 
they had served their time. Everybody 
liked that idea here. In fact, it was 
passed, once again by a voice vote, to­
tally supported, and it had real biparti­
san support. But, once again, the con­
ferees dumped it out. They threw it in 
the trash can. Why? 
I will be frank. Both Senate and 
House bills contained a number of pro­
visions that were very important to 
California, but they were left out by 
the conferees. Given this, and the con­
ferees' failure to address the most im­
portant part of that bill, habeas cor­
pus, I do not think any of them would 
win any crimefighter contests in Cali­
fornia. 
I can go on and on and question the 
acts of the conference committee, but 
the point is clear. In the Democrats' 
rush to steamroll a crime bill through 
this Congress, the need for a tough, 
comprehensive crime bill took a back 
seat to the desire to put forward a 
weak, watered-down proposal. The 
American people and Californians, for 
my part, do not deserve second best 
when it comes to enacting measures to 
combat violent crime and drug traf­
ficking in our schools, our parks, and 
our neighborhoods. That is why I can­
not support this conference report. The 
Democrats can argue all day long that 
this conference report is good. But it is 
not good enough. And I, as one Sen­
ator, am not going to stop until we 
have delivered a bill that is much more 
like the bill that this House, in a bipar­
tisan fashion, passed out of here. 
If what you want is mediocrity, then 
support that conference report. If what 
you want is a label that says you are a 
real crimefighter and you are getting 
tough on criminals but then when you 
look underneath you have nothing, it 
is a sham, go ahead and vote for that 
conference report. 
But, if you want a meaningful bill, a 
well-balanced bill, a bill that really, 
really finally will reform habeas corpus 
in such a way that there will be a real 
death penalty, a real one to act as a 
real deterrent, then, in fact, I suggest 
to my colleagues that what we need to 
do is to support the crime bill, the 
Crime Control Act that was introduced 
earlier this week. 
The Crime Control Act cuts across 
the spectrum of crime from white-col­
lar crime to drug-related crime, from 
terrorists to gangs, from naked vio­
lence on our streets to domestic vio­
lence in our homes. It is truly a com­
prehensive crime control bill which 
President Bush challenged us almost a 
year ago to deliver. 
So I ask my colleagues to finish what 
we started last year. Let us send the 
American people a crime control bill 
that we can be proud of; nothing sec­
ond best; not a so-so measure; not a 
bill that looks good up at the top but 
has nothing, no teeth in it and no back­
bone in it as you go through it. 
And with respect to habeas corpus, 
let us finish what was started many 
years ago to institute habeas reforms 
that make the death penalty enforce­
able, not unobtainable. I have said it 
once before, I will say it again. The 
number one cause of death for a thug 
on death row must not be old age. The 
writing is on the wall. 
Those who support the conference re­
port must face one simple fact. The so­
called Violent Crime Control Act con­
tained in the conference report is dead. 
It has received its death sentence and 
it is in the process of being carried out. 
The Democrats know it is not going 
anywhere, but they want to continue 
this little charade, send it on to the 
President so the President will veto it, 
come back here for a veto override at­
tempt, that will fail and then they will 
say, "Look, look the President vetoed 
a crime bill that had the death penalty 
and money for law enforcement. See 
America, the President is soft on 
crime. " 
Well, I have news, the American peo­
ple-and I tell you for Californians-­
they are a lot smarter than that. They 
will see through that veil. They are not 
going to be fooled by such misguided 
legislation that has been labeled a 
crime bill compromise. Sure it is a 
compromise. Law enforcement, crime 
victims and their survivors and law­
abiding citizens are all compromised 
by this report. Instead, Mr. President, 
let us send the Crime Control Act of 
1992 to the House of Representatives 
and then send it to the President. 
After all, our job is to reach an 
agreement on comprehensive legisla­
tion that will help, not handcuff, law 
enforcement in their fight against hei­
nous criminals. We can do that. There 
is time. The clock has not run out. We 
had it, we did it last summer. Now let 
us straighten our backbone and 
strengthen our will and do it again. Let 
us get the job done. Thank you, Mr. 
President. 
Mr. HA TOH addressed the Chair. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
ROBB). The Chair recognizes the Sen­
ator from Utah [Mr. HATCH].· 
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I want to 
compliment the Senator from Califor­
nia for his remarks with regard to the 
conference report and possible alter­
natives to it, because this is serious 
business. I have to say the conference 
report leaves a great deal to be desired. 
Some of my friends across the aisle 
would have everybody believe that the 
choice before the Senate is the con­
ference crime bill or no crime bill. 
That is simply wrong. 

--- PDF PAGE 29 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4519 
The conference bill, I think we have 
shown over the last couple of days, is 
fatally flawed and it should die a well­
deserved death. The truth, however, is 
that there is another alternative and 
that is the Crime Control Act intro­
duced 2 days ago by my good friend and 
distinguished colleague from South 
Carolina, Senator THURMOND. 
The Republican Crime Control Act 
contains some positive features of the 
conference report bill. There are some 
positive features in the conference re­
port but the Republican Crime Control 
Act eliminates its decidedly negative 
features. I assure my colleagues if the 
conference report is not adopted, the 
Senate will have an opportunity to 
vote on a tough anticrime piece of leg­
islation in this session. 
Those procriminal features of the 
conference report include its language 
on habeas corpus. The conference re­
port rejects the Senate habeas corpus 
title that was passed overwhelmingly 
in the Senate. It would have changed a 
lot of the problems that we have today. 
The conference report rejects the 
Senate's standard that habeas cases 
can only be brought for claims that 
have not been fully and fairly litigated 
already by the States. It overturns at 
least 14 Supreme Court cases that limit 
frivolous appeals and endless litigation 
in death penalty cases. That alone 
ought to be a reason for voting against 
the conference report. It allows death 
row inmates, who do not even dispute 
their guilt, to file endless challenges to 
their sentences. That has been going on 
at a cost of billions of dollars to the 
taxpayers, to you and me and every 
other taxpayer in this country, by 
criminals convicted of murder, basi­
cally admitting it, not denying it, and 
yet filing frivolous appeal after frivo­
lous appeal, hoping they can get a new 
trial because all the witnesses are 
dead, gone, intimidated, whatever. 
The conference report sets no time 
limit on filing non-death-penalty ha­
beas cases. It doubles the 180-day limit 
on death penalty habeas cases passed 
by the Senate allowing death row in­
mates to wait a full year after exhaust­
ing all direct appeals before even be­
ginning the Federal habeas process. It 
prohibits State judges from appointing 
counsel in capital cases by requiring 
that only public defender organizations 
and comparable entities can appoint 
lawyers. It imposes unrealistic counsel 
qualification standards for State cases 
that only a few established defenders 
can meet. 
Those unrealistic standards far ex­
ceed those that Congress has enacted 
for Federal capital cases. In other 
words, it makes it impossible to en­
force a Federal capital jury verdict. 
If standards are not followed, all pro­
cedural defaults are disregarded and 
current presumption of correctness for 
a State court fact finding would be re­
versed. It does not take an extraor-
dinary intellect to realize that the ha­
beas corpus provisions in the con­
ference report were put there by the 
most liberal members of the House Ju­
diciary Committee and the Senate Ju­
diciary Committee, discarding all the 
tough-on-crime provisions with regard 
to habeas. That is reason enough to 
vote against this conference report. 
With regard to the death penalty, al­
though the bill adopts new death pen­
alties-and we heard a lot of ranting 
and raving about how tough this is on 
capital crimes because they have listed 
so many more that can be considered 
capital crimes-and so al though it 
adopts new death penalties, its proce­
dures are so convoluted that the death 
penalty will seldom be returned and it 
will never really be carried out. That 
alone is a reason to vote against the 
conference report. 
It overturns the case of Blystone ver­
sus Pennsylvania. It is a 1990 case, 
under which jurors are instructed to 
impose the death penalty if they con­
clude that the aggravating factors in 
the case outweigh the mitigating fac­
tors. Instead, the bill provides the jq.­
rors need never impose the death pen­
alty regardless of their findings con-
. cerning aggravating and mitigating 
factors. 
The conference report enacts una­
nimity requirements for the first time 
for the jury recommendation on the 
death penalty. Thus, when only one 
juror declines to impose the death sen­
tence, regardless of the facts of the 
case, regardless of how heinous the 
crime was, the sentence is prohibited, 
even though all the other jurors want 
to impose it. Remember, the court al­
ready prohibits the prosecutor from ob­
jecting to seating jurors who are op­
posed to the death penalty in the first 
place and that is of course found in the 
case of Witherspoon versus Illinois. 
Mr. President, I myself would very 
seldom use the death penalty. I would 
use it only in the most heinous of 
cases, and only cases where there are 
the aggravating circumstances, be­
cause I personally think it should only 
be used very sparingly. On the other 
hand, I believe the death penalty is a 
very, very important anticrime meas­
ure and it is one that we really ought 
to impose as punishment for appro­
priate crimes. 
I have heard the distinguished Sen­
ator from Delaware flailing his hands 
in the air saying we have all these 53 
death penalty provisions in this won­
derful conference report. They are not 
wonderful death penalty provisions if 
you cannot enforce them. They are not 
tough on crime if you cannot enforce 
them. 
And if you add the Federal habeas ap­
proach that they have in their con­
ference report, my goodness gracious, 
you will never be able to enforce what­
ever death penalty might possibly be 
given. And a lot of those will be ne-
gated by the way they have written the 
bill and the way they have abolished 
the requirement that you do not have 
to have a unanimous jury verdict with 
regard to imposing the death penalty. 
It is nice to talk about being tough 
on crime, and it is kind of cynical to do 
so, however, when you know that those 
sentences can never be, in fact, carried 
out. 
On the exclusionary rule, a lot of 
Americans are starting to understand 
the exclusionary rule. The conference 
report narrows the good faith excep­
tion to the exclusionary rule. Many of 
the people who are arguing for the con­
ference report today did not even want 
the good faith exception. 
But when the Leon case came down, 
they knew that the Supreme Court had 
enshrined that in the law. So they now 
want to narrow the Supreme Court de­
cision of Leon. 
The conference report expands the 
criminals' rights to challenge the ad­
missibility of incriminating evidence 
used against them. It does not accu­
rately codify the Leon case which was 
a breath of fresh air, although in my 
opinion did not go far enough to get rid 
of allowing people to get off of criminal 
conduct that they have done on mere 
technicalities. 
The conference report reverses the 
Leon presumption that police officers 
are entitled to rely on a magistrate's 
authorization to search. The con­
ference report reverses the fifth circuit 
good faith exception which applies in 
warrantless searches and which is 
broader than the Leon decision ap­
proach, and that is in United States 
versus Williams, which was decided in 
1980. 
So the conference report basically 
hurts the exclusionary rule reforms 
that have allowed us to stop these 
criminals from getting off on mere 
technicalities. That happens in a wide 
variety of cases. The most easy to un­
derstand, of course, is where a long 
time after the fact witnesses are gone, 
or the evidence is gone, or it is very 
difficult to go to another trial where 
some court reverses on the basis of the 
exclusionary rule and they exclude all 
of the evidence that really was nec­
essary to convict the person, or be­
cause of the exclusionary rule, the im­
position of that rule, there is no way 
that the case can be proven again in a 
retrial. That has happened, and it has 
happened in this country in all too 
many cases. 
The distinguished Senator from Dela­
ware will say it did not happen very 
much, but that is not the point. Even if 
he is right, and he is not, that is not 
the point. The point is we are allowing 
hardened criminals to get off because 
of an arbitrary technical rule and that 
the Supreme Court has tired to resolve 
and the Williams case was resolved 
even stronger than the Supreme Court. 
Mr. President, sexual violence is 
something that has affected a lot of 

--- PDF PAGE 30 ---
4520 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
people in our society today because 
there is far too much of that going on. 
This conference report, which some 
say is not such a great anticrime bill, 
rejects increases in the maximum pen­
alty for recidivist rapists and child mo­
lesters. Both Houses passed that provi­
sion. Last year the Senate passed it, 
the House of Representatives passed it, 
and the liberals in both committees re­
jected the maximum penalty for recidi­
vist rapists and child molesters. 
That to me is amazing. How anybody 
can stand here and say it was a better 
bill than what we passed through the 
Senate I will never understand. The 
conference report rejects the House 
provisions providing that the Govern­
ment gets the same number of preemp­
tory strikes in the choosing of jurors. 
In other words, it preserves current law 
that the defense has 10 preemptory 
strikes and the Government has 6. 
Preemptory strikes are very, very 
important in trial law but especially in 
criminal trial law. We tried to even it . 
up so that the criminals or the alleged 
criminals do not have any advantage 
over the prosecution, and that both be 
given the same number of preemptory 
strikes; in other words, the automatic 
right, short of violation of civil rights, 
short of discrimination, the automatic 
right to strike any potential jurors for 
any reason whatsoever as long as it is 
not discriminatory. 
The House put in there that both the 
prosecutor and the defense counsel 
have tne same number of preemptory 
strikes. The conference report would 
preserve current law which gives the 
defendant 10 preemptory strikes and 
gives the prosecutors only 6. 
The conference report rejects HIV. 
For those who do not understand that, 
that means AIDS testing for Federal 
sex offenders with disclosure of test re­
sults to the victims. That is a provi­
sion I sponsored. I am particularly 
upset that that is not in this con­
ference report. It is reason enough to 
vote against the conference report. 
Why should not the victims of sex of­
fenders be warned and told that the sex 
offender is HIV positive? If the sex of­
fender is not positive, why should not 
they be told that, to alleviate the wor­
ries and the fears? Why should some 
woman who has been raped have to 
have that worry when we can give her 
some consolation, and when we can 
give her some scientific information 
that will help her to know how to han­
dle her problems one way or the other? 
Why should not we be more concerned 
about the person raped than we are 
about the criminal? 
Let me tell you. I have been one of 
the major principal sponsors of the 
AIDS bills out of the Congress. I think 
if people watch the debates on those 
bills, I managed on our side and helped 
to write them. I think they are right. I 
see no reason in the world why some 
poor woman who has been raped by a 
criminal, and the criminals convicted, 
should not have an absolute right to 
have that criminal tested for HIV-posi­
t! ve results, and be told one way or the 
other whether that criminal was HIV 
positive. 
I think it is time to get tough on rap­
ists and those who commit sexual vio­
lence in our society. The bill, as advo­
cated as a tough crime bill by the dis­
tinguished Senator from Delaware, 
does not have that provision in it. In 
fact, this conference report rejects 
Senate provisions, provisions we had in 
our Senate bill last year, before we 
went to conference, rejects the Senate 
provisions providing for restitution for 
victims of rape, child molestation, and 
child sexual exploitation offenses, 
whether or not physical injury results 
from such crime. 
He calls that tough on crime? 
Let me tell you something. If we can­
not put in a tough crime bill provision 
that provides for restitution for vic­
tims of rape, for victims of child moles­
tation, and other child sexual exploi­
tation practices and offenses, whether 
or not physical injury results, then 
something is wrong with us. And it is 
certainly not a tough-on-crime bill 
with regard to that provision. 
We could go on and on here, but let 
me go into involuntary confessions. In 
the famous 1991 case of Arizona versus 
Fulminate, that was a very important 
case which resolved the problems of in­
voluntary confessions, and that deci­
sion was reversed by the conference re­
port. 
The Fulminate case simply recog­
nized the commonsense proposition 
that if there is other independent evi­
dence, such as fingerprints, eye­
witnesses or video tapes, that establish 
guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, then a 
criminal should not be able to avoid 
punishment because the circumstances 
of his confession violated current 
standards of voluntariness. That is 
what Fulminate stands for. 
Why, if a criminal would be convicted 
anyway, should the case be thrown out 
and have to be retried with all of the 
cost to the Government , all of the cost 
to the taxpayers, when there was suffi­
cient evidence to convict the criminal 
anyway? It was a great decision by the 
Supreme Court, and one that was tough 
on crime. 
Our friends on the other side would 
do away with that decision. They over­
rule it. 
They call this bill tough on crime? 
Come on. 
This is important stuff. That case 
was a well-reasoned case. The Supreme 
Court knew what it was doing. And it 
simply said if the criminal would have 
been convicted otherwise, you should 
not throw it out because of a technical­
ity and forced confession. And some­
times forced confessions are sometimes 
"forced" confessions. Sometimes good 
defense counsel can raise almost any 
issue, and I have to say I commend 
them for doing it. I have tried a few of 
these cases myself as a defense counsel. 
And I have to tell you that the defend­
ant deserves every possible benefit that 
the defense counsel can give that de­
fendant. 
On the other hand, society deserves­
where everybody knows the finger­
prints were there, everybody has the 
other objective evidence that would 
have convicted the defendant anyway­
to not have that case thrown out be­
cause there may have been an involun­
tary, coerced confession. 
Let me spend a few more minutes on 
the exclusionary rule with regard to 
the conference report. 
Mr. President, let me just dwell for a 
moment on one example of why the 
conference report is unworthy of sup­
port. Again, it relates to the exclusion­
ary rule. I have chatted about this in 
the past. The conference report does 
not merely fail to enact the President's 
tough provision on admitting illegally 
obtained evidence in circumstances 
justifying an objectively reasonable be­
lief that the search was lawful. It not 
only fails to codify existing law accu­
rately with respect to the admission of 
evidence obtained in good-faith reli­
ance on a search warrant. 
The conference report will result in 
freeing murderers, rapists, robbers, and 
drug dealers who would otherwise be 
convicted in Texas, Mississippi, Louisi­
ana, Alabama, Georgia, and Florida. 
Why? Because the courts in those par­
ticular States admit illegally obtained 
evidence seized in circumstances justi­
fying an objectively reasonable belief 
the search was lawful, even in the ab­
sence of a warrant. In this regard, the 
conference report sets back law en­
forcement in six Southern States, plain 
and simple. This is a procriminal provi­
sion that the conference report, which 
they are trying to pass off as tough on 
crime, contains. 
The only people who benefit from 
this part of the conference report are 
criminals. If a police officer has an 
honest and objectively reasonable be­
lief a search is lawful without a war­
rant, he or she will undertake that 
search every time, and they should. We 
want them to. If it is an objectively 
reasonable belief that the search is 
lawful, they will go ahead and conduct 
that search. Throwing out the evidence 
does not deter an illegal search in the 
future under those circumstances; it 
only helps murderers, rapists, robbers, 
and drug dealers. That is what the con­
ference report does. It puts money in 
one hand of the police officer to fight 
crime, and then ties the police officer's 
hands behind his or her back with 
these procriminal provisions. 
The conference report is a cynical ef­
fort to use money provisions to fool the 
American people into believing this is 
a tough crime bill. To entice support 
for the bill, they throw money at the 

--- PDF PAGE 31 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4521 
problem, and then skirt the issue of 
some of these very, very serious crimi­
nal legal issues. 
What is the point, however, of trying 
to help police catch more criminals 
with the added funds if the criminals 
are going to be let off on technical­
ities? Why the charade? Because my 
friends on the other side have a prob­
lem. Most of them, in both the House 
and Senate, who are responsible for 
this bill-in fact, all of them, I would 
have to say, maybe with the exception 
of the distinguished Senator from Dela­
ware, who has to carry their mail­
they do not support the tough provi­
sions on the death penalty, habeas cor­
pus reform, and the exclusionary rule. 
I have to admit that the distinguished 
Senator from Delaware does not sup­
port some of that either. But they want 
to sound tough. So they put in a death 
penalty provision which is basically 
unenforceable. They have a provision 
labeled exclusionary rule reform, 
which is much worse than current case 
law. They have a provision labeled ha­
beas corpus, which is much worse than 
current law and would allow the repet­
itive frivolous appeals to go forward. 
It takes time to explain this, and we 
have done it over and over again, only 
to be met by evasions. But I do not be­
lieve that the American people are 
going to be fooled by this conference 
report. Neither should the law enforce­
ment people. 
Let me take a second and spend some 
time on the retroactivity provision, as 
I did yesterday. Mr. President, the con­
ference report contains one of the most 
dangerous innovations in criminal law. 
It is section 204 of the habeas corpus 
title. This section governs the retro­
active effect of Supreme Court deci­
sions. 
Even though the Senate rejected a 
similar retroactivity provision last 
fall, the Senate Democratic conferees 
agreed to accept House-passed lan­
guage on this subject. 
The question of whether a decision of 
an appellate court shall have prospec­
tive or retroactive effect is intimately 
connected with the question of whether 
a criminal conviction can ever be final. 
It is in the interest of those who are 
against crime to have those convic­
tions become final at some time. 
All habeas petitioners are prisoners 
whose cases are considered final. They 
are in the process of attempting to re­
open long-finished cases. 
Under current law, a defendant whose 
appeal is pending can generally take 
advantage of any recent or new court 
decision that is favorable to him or 
her. However, once his or her direct ap­
peal is finished, and · his or her case is 
considered final, he cannot avail him­
self of newly announced court decisions 
that are designed to govern proceed­
ings in future cases. 
This sensible rule is one-and frank­
ly, the only one-that allows the crimi-
59---059 0-96 Vol. 138 (Pt. 4) 2 
nal case to achieve any degree of final­
ity. The rule, moreover, is a salutary 
one, because it encourages the courts 
to develop new and fairer rules of 
criminal procedure, free from the fear 
that a newly prescribed rule will have 
the effect of opening the jailhouse 
doors. 
The Miranda case of a number of 
years back is a good example of how 
these principles work in action. When 
the Supreme Court laid down new rules 
which all future defendants could 
claim, the Court specifically held that 
the rules would only apply prospec­
tively. How could they have held other­
wise? To say that the specific Miranda 
rules must have been given before the 
Miranda case had even been decided 
would have meant that virtually every 
prisoner in America would have had to 
have been let out of prison. Had the Su­
preme Court not had the power to 
specify that its decision would apply 
only prospectively, we can certainly 
assume that it would never have de­
cided Miranda as it did. The same is 
true of Escobedo versus Illinois and a 
number of other leading cases in the 
field of criminal procedure. 
But those who advocate congression­
ally mandated retroactivity would 
take this power away from the Su­
preme Court. They would, instead, give 
to the individual Federal district 
courts, or that particular Federal dis­
trict court hearing a habeas petition, 
the power to overrule the holding of 
the Court on the question of retro­
activity. 
They would, moreover, allow the dis­
trict court to apply new rules retro­
actively to criminal cases that have al­
ready become final, thus opening up for 
review cases that may have been set­
tled for years or decades and, if they 
are opened up, they would almost be 
impossible to try again. 
As the Attorney General has ob­
served, this innovation would overrule 
several leading Supreme Court cases 
and would "resurrect the chronic prob­
lems of unpredictability and lack of 
reasonable finality of judgments" 
which those decisions put to rest. 
No efficient system of criminal jus­
tice can function under such an ar­
rangement. If nothing else, the retro­
activity rule contained in this con­
ference report would encourage pris­
oners to file repetitious petitions sim­
ply in the hope that their petition may 
be heard by a new district court judge, 
one who may decide the retroactivity 
issue differently and more selectivity 
than the previous judge. At least, 
under the current system, the Supreme 
Court sets the rules, and they apply na­
tionwide. We do· not know how the dis­
trict courts can sit if you have the con­
ference report and you put an uncer­
tainty in the law that I think is going 
to be almost impossible to overcome 
and would open up new ways for hard­
ened criminals to get out of jail. 
Congressionally mandated retro­
activity is not designed to achieve jus­
tice. It has only two objectives. One, to 
prevent the execution of persons who 
have been otherwise unsuccessful in 
preventing the carrying out of their 
death sentences; and in noncapital 
cases or non-death-penalty case, to ex­
tend and perpetuate the pernicious in­
fluence of the liberal decisions of the 
Warren Court. 
The best thing about the Warren 
Court is that it came to an end. This 
bill would allow key Warren Court de­
cisions to be applied to criminal cases 
where even the Warren Court said they 
should not apply. As liberal as that 
Court was, it would not have gone as 
far as this conference report goes to let 
criminals off and to stop capital pun­
ishment and to hurt the criminal jus­
tice system. 
But there is another more fundamen­
tal objection to the congressionally 
legislated retroactivity. 
The Supreme Court's rulings on 
retroactivity should not be overruled 
by a single Federal trial judge when­
ever that judge determines, on what­
ever basis, that it is just to give the de­
fendant the benefit of a law that the 
Supreme Court has ruled the defendant 
should not receive the benefit of. I 
question whether Congress even has 
the power to create article III courts 
that can overrule the decisions of the 
Supreme Court established by the Con­
stitution. But, even if we do possess 
that power, it is clearly unwise to exer­
cise it. The decisions of the Supreme 
Court must be followed by the lower 
Federal courts; otherwise, there will be 
chaos in our judicial system. But that 
is what the conference report allows. 
Let me illustrate how the Supreme 
Court's retroactivity doctrine works in 
practice and the benefits which flow 
from it. The doctrine has recently been 
addressed and clarified by the Supreme 
Court in the leading case of Teague 
versus Lane (February 22, 1989). There 
the Court reaffirmed the long-standing 
rule-which is also the law in most 
States-that newly announced rules of 
criminal procedure do not apply to 
cases that have already become final. 
That is the only workable standard of 
retroactivity in the criminal law. Con­
gress should not now confuse a subject 
which the Supreme Court has so re­
cently straightened out. 
No habeas reform is worth reversing 
the Teague case. No habeas reform is 
worth reopening the long-final convic­
tions of every prisoner in America, 
which is what reversing Teague will 
have a tendency to do; in fact, will do. 
Section 204 of the habeas title pro­
poses to set up criteria by which judges 
not on the Supreme Court can deter­
mine that decisions of the Court should 
have an effect directly contrary to that 
which the Court has concluded they 
should have. 
That is clearly unconstitutional. The 
supremacy clause of article V clearly 

--- PDF PAGE 32 ---
4522 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
establishes that the Supreme Court is 
the final arbiter of such matters, not 
the 700 or more Federal district court 
judges. 
More importantly, consider the 
precedent that this bald-faced attempt 
to tamper with already-decided Su­
preme Court cases establishes. If Con­
gress does have the power to determine 
when certain Supreme Court decisions 
shall apply and when they shall not­
despite the Supreme Court having de­
termined otherwise-then Congress 
will surely have the power to deter­
mine who shall be bound by those deci­
sions, what precedential effect they 
shall have, or any other aspect of the 
holding with which it might disagree. 
Why do we not alter the amount of 
damages if we think the Court has 
given too little or to much? It would be 
no more absurd than for Congress to 
say, as this bill does, that Federal trial 
judges must follow our standards, and 
not the Court's standards, in deciding 
when the Court's decisions shall not be 
applied prospectively and when they 
· should be applied retroactively. 
Someone should call the Guinness 
Book of World Records. This clearly 
unconstitutional provision is going to 
be bounced quicker than any law Con­
gress has every previously passed. Con­
gress simply has no power to tell the 
Supreme Court what its decisions 
mean. They are a coequal branch of 
Government; or shall I say, it is a co­
equal branch of Government, and we do 
not have a power to overrule it in this 
manner. 
Nor do we have the power to create 
article III courts that can overrule the 
decisions of the Supreme Court estab­
lished by the Constitution. The deci­
sions of the Supreme Court must be 
followed by the lower Federal courts; 
otherwise, there will be chaos in our 
judicial system. 
I might add, tb.ere were some people 
who were on the Constitution sub­
committees of the respective two Judi­
ciary Committees who allowed this to 
occur. To me, it is unbelievable that 
those committees would do that. 
Section 204 of the habeas corpus title 
would encourage prisoners to file rep­
etitious petitions simply on the hope 
that their petition may be heard by a 
new district judge-one who may de­
cide the retroactivity issue differently 
than the previous judge. Under current 
law, the Supreme Court sets the rules 
and they apply nationwide. 
They change this by a simple major­
ity vote through a conference report. 
That is ridiculous; another reason I do 
not think anybody who believes in the 
rule of law should be voting for this 
conference report. 
There is another important point to 
be made about retroactivity. If the Su­
preme Qourt cannot adopt new rules of 
criminal procedure that are prospec­
tive only, then it is certain the Court 
will be less likely to adopt new rules to 
control the abuses of State and local 
police which we all agree are essential. 
The Court's retroactivity doctrine is 
essential to the development and 
growth of our law of criminal proce­
dure. 
And they would overturn this retro­
activi ty doctrine in the interest of lib­
eral principles of law, principles that 
disregard the Constitution of the Unit­
ed States. And in the process, the 
Court, I think, would have a very tough 
time in the future deciding landmark 
criminal cases that might be in favor 
of the defendants who are unjustly con­
victed or accused. 
The reason they will do that is be­
cause they are not going to allow us 
here, or the district courts there, to 
overrule their well-considered opin­
ions, single judges in the district 
courts. That is unbelievable, but that 
is what the conference report does. 
Consider the Miranda case, or 
Escobedo versus Illinois. Both of those 
cases announced unprecedented new 
rul8s of criminal procedure, but the 
Court specifically noted in each case 
that ~he rules were · prospective only. 
They would apply to all cases on appeal 
but not to those that had already be­
come final; meaning, of course, that 
Miranda violations would not provide a 
ground for relief on habeas corpus for 
criminals who were convicted before 
Miranda was decided. How could the 
Court have ruled otherwise? Had it not 
possessed the flexibility to make Mi­
randa prospective only, the Court's rul­
ing in that case would have opened an 
unimaginable floodgate of new de­
mands for the release of State pris­
oners already in confinement, and they 
would have been released, a lot of 
them, because they could not have got­
ten the witnesses together, brought the 
evidence together, and retried those 
cases, many of which were old and 
long-gone cases. The Court would never 
have issued the Miranda opinion had it 
not possessed the authority to make 
its new rule prospective only. We 
should consider what other similar un­
foreseen consequences to the develop­
ment of the law of criminal procedure 
in this country may lie in store if we 
adopt today this revolutionary restric­
tion on the authority of the Supreme 
Court. 
It is difficult, I admit, to explain 
what the retroactivity issue is all 
about. But imagine how much more 
difficult it will be to explain to our 
constituents why it is that infamous 
criminals will be receiving new trials 
decades after their convictions: 
Does either Senator from Arizona 
know how he will be able satisfactorily 
to explain to the citizens of that State 
why he may have voted for a provision 
that would probably allow the Tison 
brothers to receive new trials? 
How will the Senators from Califor­
nia explain the new trials that will be 
sought for Charles Manson and Sirhan 
Sirhan; for Juan Corona and the Hill­
side strangler-new trials that will be 
sought and, in many cases, mandated 
by this bill's provision that Supreme 
Court cases never before considered 
relevant to their trials now must be ap­
plied to give them new rights. 
I know that I cannot now explain to 
my own constituents why it is that one 
man, William Andrews, has been on 
death row in Utah for 18 years. The 
whole point of starting this habeas de­
bate was to shorten the ordeal for my 
State and for the victims of Andrews' 
unspeakable crimes. Now, instead of 
debating legislation to shorten the ha­
beas process, we are actually consider­
ing evidence to double and triple it. 
Section 204-the retroactivity provi­
sion.:_makes the Andrews prosecutors 
go back to square one. To start all over 
again. 
This is not mere conjecture on my 
part. Just last year, Andrews' defense 
attorney announced that he would be 
asking a Federal court in Utah to free 
Andrews based on a recently decided 
1991 Supreme Court case relating to the 
composition of juries. 
The Supreme Court has already held 
that this 1991 decision does not apply 
to persons such as Andrews who were 
convicted in 1974. Therefore, we know 
that Andrews will not succeed in being 
freed from his death sentence on this 
basis-or do we? 
If the bill before this body today is 
passed, then it is a whole new ball 
game for William Andrews; it is a 
whole new ball game for the Charles 
Mansons and Ted Bundys of the world. 
This bill tells them that their cases 
will never be over, so long as the Su­
preme Court continues to issue new 
opinions. 
Before we get lost in the abstractions 
of habeas corpus law, before we wear 
out our hands wringing them over the 
supposed constitutional rights of vi­
cious murderers, we need to remember 
the real consequences of serious crimi­
nal cases-the deaths, the shattered 
lives of those left behind, the families 
who must go on without their fathers 
or other loved ones. 
Most importantly, for today, we 
must understand how these cases will 
continue to blight peoples' lives if the 
retroactivity provision of the con­
ference report, section 204, becomes 
law. 
William Andrews continues to appeal 
his sentence and has so far succeeded 
in delaying his execution for 17 years. 
But today, at last, the end is in sight. 
But not if we are so unwise as to pass 
the conference report. If the retro­
acti vi ty provision of this bill passes, 
the Andrews case will never end. Of 
that I am certain. 
In 18 years of appeal, William An­
drews has not raised one single meii­
torious issue on appeal. Not one. But 
the supporters of this bill now propose 
to allow Andrews to go back in time to 

--- PDF PAGE 33 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4523 
1978, when his criminal conviction be­
came final, to let him see if he cannot 
find one more case, one more argu­
ment, one more chance to avoid his 
death sentence. 
The proposed repeal of the Supreme 
Court's retroactivity cases is the great­
est gift to prison inmates in America­
and it applies to all State prisoners-­
that has ever been proposed. 
That is why the President will veto 
it. That is why every attorney general 
of every State that I know of 
opposes it. 
That is why on June 25, 1991, 16 of the 
elected State attorneys of the State of 
Florida wrote their Senators, urging 
them not to vote for any amendment 
that would repeal or restrict the Su­
preme Court decision in Teague versus 
Lane. 
Only one habeas amendment consid ·­
ered by this body met the criteria for 
their support-it was the habeas title 
of S. 1241 that now lies in the trash bin 
of the Judiciary committee conference 
room, replaced by the entirely unac­
ceptable House habeas provisions. 
Reversing Teague versus Lane, as the 
conference report does, will be the 
greatest gift to prison inmates in 
years. Every conflict will immediately 
want to subscribe to U.S. Law Week, so 
that on Monday mornings he or she can 
look to see what new decisions have 
been handed down by the Supreme 
Court-what new case can be cited in a 
new habeas petition seeking release 
from jail and return to the streets. 
This issue is not about whether State 
prisoners are to have one bite of the 
apple. Every convicted prisoner gets 
eight or nine bites of the apple on di­
rect appeal and through State 
postconviction procedures before he 
even turns to Federal habeas. 
But Federal habeas corpus is not 
about giving prisoners a second bite of 
the apple, it is about giving prisoners a 
10th bite of the apple, even a 20th bite 
of the apple. If only the problem were 
as simple as a second bite of the apple. 
William Andrews has already re­
ceived 29 bites-but the crime bill con­
ferees have decided to give him just as 
many chances to appeal again. Revers­
ing the Supreme Court's retroactivity 
decisions will, in effect, allow William 
Andrews to start his appeals all over 
again. 
I will allow convicted prisoners a 2d 
bite of the apple, and a 10th bite too. 
But I won't give them the whole or- · 
chard as the conference report would 
do. 
Mr. President, since 1976, over 3,000 
persons have been sentenced to death 
row, yet only slightly more than 100 of 
these sentences have been carried out. 
I am continuously asked by Utah citi­
zens, in letters too numerous to count, 
what is going on here? What is wrong 
with our criminal justice system? Well, 
I think we all know what's wrong-it is 
the Federal habeas corpus system. 
We all know what is wrong-we all 
know how to fix it. And if we do not 
know then we have the attorney gen­
erals, the prosecutors, and the law en­
forcement personnel of virtually every 
jurisdiction on record to tell us. 
They all say one thing: Pass habeas 
reform, but do not overturn the good 
decisions of the Supreme Court. Do not 
let the House liberals overturn Teague 
versus Lane and reopen cases that have 
been closed for decades. 
If any Senator today has any ques­
tion about whether this conference re­
port is truly a crime bill, they do not 
have to take my word on it. More im­
portantly, they do not have to accept 
Senator BIDEN's judgment as to what 
this bill will do. Call your own State's 
attorney general and ask him or her. 
They know the issue, and I am con­
fident as to what their response will be. 
They know this is no crime bill and 
that is what most will tell you-Demo­
crat and Republican alike. 
Just yesterday, the chairman of the 
Judiciary Committee directly refuted 
my assertion that this conference re­
port arguably provides a basis for Cali­
fornia inmate to bring a new habeas pe­
tition that he could not bring under 
current law-a habeas petition that has 
the sole purpose, if granted, of obtain­
ing Manson's release from prison. 
Senator BIDEN derided this point, and 
said that Manson would have no such 
right. But I understand today that the 
attorney general of California, Dan 
Lungren, is of the opinion that Manson 
might very well be entitled to claim 
the benefit of 25 years of Supreme 
Court decisions decided after his con­
viction became final, if we are so un­
wise as to pass this conference report. 
What is most important is this: No 
one-not even the chairman of the Ju­
diciary Committee-can say for certain 
that Manson cannot file a new habeas 
petition under the authority of this 
conference report. I don't think the 
people of the State of California should 
have to accept that uncertainty. 
So who should the people of the State 
of California believe? Myself, Senator 
BIDEN, or their own attorney general? 
More important, why should they be 
forced to accept any law that risks, in 
any degree, the release of Charles Man­
son. 
When this crime debate began, I ex­
pressed the hope that I could someday 
finally tell the people of the State of 
Utah that Congress had acted to end 
the absurdity of endless 15- and 18-year 
appeals. Now, I realize that I may be 
faced with trying to explain the abso­
lutely incomprehensible fact-and it is 
a fact-that the Senate of the United 
States is today being asked to create a 
system of legally guaranteed endless 
appeals-appeals that can last as long 
as 25 years, as in the Manson case or 
even as long as 50 years, as in the Wil­
liam Heirens case. 
If the conference report becomes law, 
death by natural causes will provide 
the only limit on a prisoner's ability to 
relitigate his conviction and sentence. 
When we debated this subject early last 
year, I pointed out that one con­
sequence of the Democratic crime bill 
was the reopening of the case of Rich­
ard Speck, convicted in 1966 of murder­
ing eight Chicago nurses. Since that 
time, Speck has died in jail, before the 
Democrats had a chance to reopen his 
case to see if some subsequent Supreme 
Court decision could not be found to 
free him. 
If it should happen that this con­
ference report should ever become law, 
I will at least be thankful that it did 
not pass last year in time for Richard 
Speck to put the families of those eight 
innocent murdered nurses through the 
unspeakable ordeal of relitigating his 
case. 
I hope, Mr. President, that at some 
time in the future I may finally pro­
vide a favorable answer to my constitu­
ents who ask what is wrong with the 
criminal justice system. I certainly 
hope that I do not have to tell them 
that Congress has actually acted to 
make things worse by passing the con­
ference report. I know that I will never 
be able to explain that one to them. 
Mr. President, I notice the distin­
guished Senator from Washington is 
here and would like to speak. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
Chair recognizes the Senator from 
Washington [Mr. GORTON]. 
Mr. GORTON. Mr. President, first I 
should like to thank my distinguished 
friend and colleague from Utah for his 
courtesy to me in this regard, and to 
commend him on the detailed, tech­
nical, and highly accurate analysis of 
this bill and the reasons for which the 
conference report should be rejected. 
Mr. President, my remarks will be 
somewhat shorter, but every bit as 
positive as those of the Senator from 
Utah. 
This conference report is the result 
of a reprehensible process, a process 
which has flouted the rules of proce­
dure of both Houses of Congress. The 
wisdom of those rules, rules which have 
been violated here, is shown by the 
substantive result which is before us in 
the form of this conference report, a 
so-called crime bill, which in the view 
of this Senator, inhibits the search for 
truth on the part of our criminal 
courts, obstructs justice, frees crimi­
nals on technicalities, adds complexity 
to an already overly complex Criminal 
Code, and adds to the use of technical 
defenses. In short, this proposal ignores 
the calls of our law enforcement agen­
cies-and for that matter of our citi­
zens-for safety, in order to provide aid 
and comfort to criminals and to pro­
vide more employment for lawyers. 
Let me first speak briefly as to that 
process. This body debated amend­
ments to the Criminal Code and re­
quirements with respect to criminal 
procedure last July, over a period of 

--- PDF PAGE 34 ---
4524 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
more than a week. That debate was 
spirited and serious. We voted on many 
amendments. This Senator was on the 
prevailing side of some of those amend­
ments and on the losing side of others. 
But no Member could say that the 
proposals were not seriously considered 
and debated, and that the final result 
did not express the will of the Senate, 
for better or for worse. 
Even though I disagreed with some of 
the provisions of that bill, it did seem 
to me that it represented a significant 
step forward in law enforcement and 
in criminal procedures. Considerably 
later, months later, very close to the 
end of the first session of this Con­
gress, the House passed a bill on the 
same subject. That bill differed from 
the Senate version in many respects. It 
included matters which were not in­
cluded in the Senate bill. It omitted 
some matters which were included in 
the Senate bill. It did a better job on 
some subjects which were considered 
by both Houses and a poorer job on oth­
ers. Nevertheless, it, too, represented a 
serious approach to the problem of 
criminal law ~nforcement in the ad­
ministration of justice. 
The conference committee between 
the two Houses, however, which met 
nominally shortly before the first ses­
sion of this Congress, did not consider 
any of these differences. The members 
of the minorfty party from both Houses 
on the conference committee were 
called to no meeting, given no drafts, 
asked for no input, nor, incidentally, 
were members of the majority party in 
both Houses who had supported the re­
spective bills passed by those two 
Houses. A bill written in secret and not 
presented to the conference committee 
until immediately before its adoption 
was rammed down the throats of con'­
ferees on both sides without any input 
into or votes in favor of on the part of 
members of the minority party in each 
House. That legislation totally dis­
regarded the actions of either House of 
Congress with respect to the most im­
portant areas and questions at issue. 
Unlike the debate in either House, it 
took place behind closed doors and 
with only a handful of members. 
Conference committees are appointed 
to deal with the differences between 
the two Houses and, generally speak­
ing, should, under the rules, operate 
within the parameters of the extremes 
set by the debate in those two Houses. 
This bill is not the result of such a 
process. And that is at least one reason 
for its substantive shortcomings. 
Now, what are those substantive 
shortcomings? The first is that it is to­
tally misleading to call this a crime 
bill. It is a "criminal defendant's tech­
nical defense bill," properly entitled. 
While this bill lists 50 different crimes, 
including some not involving homicide, 
for which the death penalty is theoreti­
cally an appropriate sentence, in fact, 
the changes in procedures, the 
overturnings of Supreme Court deci­
sions, will make it practically impos­
sible to impose capital punishment in 
any case arising under this bill, either 
in the Federal courts or in State courts 
which have adopted or readopted cap­
ital punishment. It would have been far 
more honest and straightforward for 
the draftsmen of this bill to have ad­
mitted that they disliked capital pun­
ishment and to have attempted to pro­
hibit it expressly by legislation, be­
cause that is indirectly what those 
draftsmen have accomplished. 
Second, this bill not only does not 
streamline the habeas corpus proceed­
ings, not only does not encourage some 
finality in criminal sentences, most 
particularly those in capital cases but 
in others as well, but actually encour­
ages and calls for a more complex and 
a more unending habeas corpus set of 
procedures than we have at the present 
time. This bill overrules or overturns 
between 1 dozen and 15 decisions of the 
Supreme Court of the United States 
which have worked modestly toward 
the direction of finality in sentencing, 
modestly in the direction of some kind 
of limitation on collateral attacks on 
criminal decisions and sentences in 
State courts. This bill encourages friv­
olous appeals rather than to discourage 
them. 
Third, Mr. President, while one of the 
liveliest debates here in the Senate and 
in the country as a whole relates to the 
exclusionary rule, which many Mem­
bers, most on this side of the aisle and 
some on the other side of the aisle, 
would like to extend to good faith sei­
zures of testimony in cases beyond 
those already authorized by the Su­
preme Court, this bill actually re­
stricts and narrows the present good 
faith exception established by the Su­
preme Court, allows more guilty crimi­
nal defendants to go free in the single 
area of the law in which it is most cer­
tain that the barring of evidence from 
a criminal trial will effect a mis­
carriage of justice from the point of 
view of society as a whole. 
I repeat, Mr. President, not only have 
we not expanded the good faith excep­
tion in this bill, we have actually nar­
rowed it, making it more difficult for 
the administration of justice and more 
difficult to obtain convictions against 
the obviously guilty. 
And, fourth and finally, this bill ig­
nores salutary provisions of the Sen­
ate's bill. The conference report fails 
to include maximum penalties for re­
cidivist rapists and child molesters. It 
fails to include such penalties despite 
the inclusion of such penalties in both 
the Senate and House versions of the 
original bill. Nor does the conference 
report contain important language 
from the Senate bill that provides for 
restitution to victims of rape, child 
molestation, and child sexual exploi­
tation offenses. These omissions are ig­
nored in the conference report. They 
are neither explained nor justified to 
the victims of such heinous crimes. 
Mr. President, this is not a crime 
control bill. This is a bill opposed al­
most universally by law enforcement 
agencies, both at the levels of police 
and prosecuting attorneys across this 
country, both Federal and State. It is a 
bill designed to provide aid and com­
fort only for those who are engaged in 
the process of inhibiting the search for 
truth and justice and who are looking 
for a greater number of technical de­
fenses to criminal charges than exists 
in an already overloaded criminal code 
at the present time. 
This bill should not come to a final 
vote. This bill should not be sent to the 
President of the United States. This 
bill should be abandoned in the ashcan 
of history in the way which it deserves, 
and the Senate, regrettably, after all of 
its good work of last summer, should 
begin again to deal with the serious is­
sues of crime and criminal law enforce­
ment demanded by the citizens of our 
respective States and of the Nation as 
a whole. 
Mr. KOHL. Mr. President, I rise 
today for two purposes: first, to urge 
my colleagues to vote for cloture on 
this strong, balanced anticrime pack­
age before the Senate and at the same 
time to commend Chairman BIDEN for 
his efforts on this package; and second, 
to reiterate my support for the con­
ference provisions on the Brady bill. 
The conference report, like the Senate 
bill, combines the best elements of 
both the Brady and Staggers proposals. 
Unfortunately, the Republican ap­
proach omits the Brady bill entirely. 
The sad truth is that violent crime 
has become a fact of life in American 
cities. 
Indeed, it may be more dangerous to 
live in America than to serve our coun­
try in a foreign war. Fewer than 300 
Americans died during the Persian Gulf 
conflict, more than 480 people were 
murdered last year in our Nation's cap­
ital. 
Mr. President, no single legislative 
change will make our streets safer. A 
comprehensive approach is needed: 
more police; tougher laws; more cer­
tainty of punishment. But while there 
is no panacea for our crime problem, 
there is a crucial step we can take 
today to reduce the carnage. We can 
enact the provisions of the Senate­
passed Brady bill-a mandatory back­
ground check and a uniform waiting 
period of 5 business days for anyone 
seeking to buy a handgun. Under our 
proposal, the waiting period would be 
in effect for at least 2112 years-and it 
could only be repealed in each State 
when an accurate instant check system 
is in place that would apply to all fire­
arms purchases. In addition, the meas­
ure would authorize $100 million to 
help States upgrade their computerized 
criminal records. 
In the United States, firearms vio­
lence is out of control. Guns were re-

--- PDF PAGE 35 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4525 
sponsible for more than 10,000 murders 
in 1991-a 20-percent increase over 1987. 
Guns were us~d in more than 600,000 
violent crimes last year. No State is 
immune to gun-related violence. Last 
year Wisconsin set a record with more 
than 230 senseless killings, and most of 
those murdered were killed with guns. 
Mr. President, not all of these weap­
ons were acquired illegally. Indeed, ac­
cording to the Department of Justice, 
more than 20 percent of all criminals­
roughly 120,00Q people a year-obtain 
their handguns through licensed deal­
ers. That is why the Brady bill is so 
vital-it would help keep guns out of 
the hands of criminals and drug traf­
fickers. 
But do not just take my word for it; 
look at who else supports it. Brady has 
been endorsed by every living former 
President-including President 
Reagan. It is supported by every major 
law enforcement organization. And 
even the NRA believes it makes sense. 
Its 1976 publication entitled " On Fire­
arms Control" says: 
A waiting period could help in reducing 
crimes of passion and in preventing people 
with criminal records or dangerous mental 
illness from acquiring weapons . 
The Brady approach also enjoys wide 
support because it would not prevent 
anyone from buying a gun who is le­
gally entitled to do so. A criminal 
records check would guarantee that le­
thal weapons were not sold to individ ­
uals with track records of qangerous 
behavior. A waiting period would en­
sure that we let people consumed by 
violent passion cool off. In short, Brady 
would create only a little inconven­
ience to law-abiding gun buyers, but it 
would help save many, many lives. 
The Senate passed the Mitchell-Kohl­
Gore amendment to Senator METZEN­
BAUM'S Brady bill by a vote of 67-32. 
The provision which has come out of 
conference is essentially the Senate 
bill with technical corrections and a 
few minor changes : It is not a perfect 
proposal , nor is the crime bill itself 
perfect-a compromise seldom is. But 
we do the American people a disserv ­
ice, Mr. President , when we allow the 
struggle for perfection to become the 
enemy of the good. 
I strongly urge my colleagues to sup­
port the Brady bill and the conference 
report, and I commend Chairman BIDEN 
for crafting this omnibus proposal. 
Mr. President, I note the absence of a 
quorum. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr . 
DODD). The clerk will call the roll. 
The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection , it is so ordered. 
The Senator from Utah is recognized. 
Mr. HATCH. Mr. President , I have 
been talking about the retroactivity 
provisions, the habeas corpus provi­
sions, the exclusionary rule and other 
matters with regard to the conference 
report, and why it is not a good 
anticrime bill. Let me go into just a 
couple of good illustrations. 
One was Ted Bundy, who, of course, 
had a Utah connection. We followed his 
career for a long time out there. I have 
to say we were happy to see justice fi­
nally carried out with regard to Ted 
Bundy. He was on death row for over 10 
years before his sentence was finally 
carried out. It took only 1 week of a 
Florida court to try and convict him 
for the murder of Kimberly Leach. He 
had murdered all kinds of other people 
as well. One week to try and convict 
him, yet it took over 10 years for Fed­
eral courts to determine that his sen­
tence should be carried out. That is 
under current habeas corpus law. 
But this 10-year period was brief 
compared to the time Bundy would 
have served on death row had Senator 
BIDEN's retroactivity provision been in 
effect in 1988. Shortly before his execu­
tion, Bundy filed a final, unsuccessful 
habeas petition in the Federal district 
court. 
His claim for relief was simple. A new 
Supreme Court case handed down the 
previous week allegedly gave him new 
rights with respect to the cross-exam­
ination of psychiatric witnesses. 
The habeas petition was summarily 
denied in 1988 because the new Supreme 
Court decision was not given retro­
active effect and no Federal trial judge 
in 1988 had jurisdiction to second guess 
the Supreme Court on this question. 
That dismissal would not have been 
possible if the Biden retroacti vi ty lan­
guage became law. In other words, the 
law was that that decision only applied 
prospectively and Bundy was not able 
to avail himself of it. And the Supreme 
Court upheld it on that basis, and he 
went to capital punishment and met 
his just reward. 
Had the conference report provision, 
been in effect, he would have had an­
other right of Federal habeas corpus 
appeal and frankly would have availed 
himself of the benefit of that particu­
lar matter. And even though he was 
justly convicted, he very well could 
have had a new trial on that issue 
alone and had to go through it again, 
and the families of these victims would 
have to go through it again. That is 
what we are not considering around 
here , the famili .es of victims, or the 
victims themselves, as we try to get rid 
of the death penalty , as we try to come 
up with these soft-on-crime provisions 
under the guise that they are tough on 
crime. 
Let me tell you, we have been fight ­
ing for this for years, to try to get 
some strong anticriminal provisions 
into the Federal code. 
The Biden habeas would have kept 
Bundy's case alive in another respect, 
because proposed section 2259(b)(2) 
makes the "ignorance or neglect of 
counsel'' a valid reason for raising a 
new issue, years after trial. 
Bundy, of course, acted as his own 
counsel. Thus, if the conference report 
had been the law for Bundy in 1988, 
Bundy would still be raising new argu­
ments now that he accidentally, neg­
ligently, or ignorantly failed to raise 
at trial a decade earlier. And it would 
go on and on, as long as we had more 
and more Supreme Court decisions 
which we are going to have more and 
more of. 
In affirming the dismissal of Bundy's 
last habeas petition, the Eleventh Cir­
cuit Court of Appeals cited the case of 
Murray versus Carrier, a 1986 case; 
seven times they cited it. 
Murray versus Carrier is one of the 
two principal cases that this retro­
acti vi ty provision is designed to re­
verse. No one denies that, by the way. 
I have to say you can look . at the 
Bundy decision decided by the Elev­
enth Circuit Court of Appeals to ascer­
tain that. 
The conference report would change 
all of that. First, it would give the Ted 
Bundys of this world a chance to argue 
before Federal trial judges that they 
should be given the benefit of any new 
Supreme Court decision even though 
the Supreme Court has already con­
cluded otherwise . 
Second , it would allow prisoners to 
raise any new issue that they may have 
neglected to raise before. Whether the 
prisoner is right or wrong as to the ap­
plicability of the new case or new issue 
is entirely beside the point. Under the 
proposed new rule of nonfinality, which 
this conference report would put in to 
criminal law , the death row inmate 's 
essential purpose of delaying sentence 
will still be accomplished. In other 
words , every death row inmate would 
have automatic rights of appeal, hence­
forth and forever, if this so-called 
tough -on-crime provision, which we all 
know is soft on crime, becomes the 
law. 
I am confident , Mr. President, that 
far more vicious murderers will die 
natural deaths of old age than face the 
consequences of their murders should 
this wrongheaded provision in the con­
ference report become law. And Ted 
Bundy would still be alive had that 
been the law then, and so would every 
one of the other people who have been 
executed since. 
Again, I will say, that I am not high 
on capital punishment for every capital 
case. I believe in capital punishment 
because it is a deterrent, but I also be­
lieve it should only be applied in the 
most heinous of cases. If you can find 
one much more heinous than Ted 
Bundy, or should I say cases more hei­
nous than Ted Bundy's, then I think it 
should apply. 
Let me just talk about our Utah pris­
oner. I talked about William Andrews 
before. He committed his crime 17 

--- PDF PAGE 36 ---
4526 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 -
years ago. He was sentenced to death 
in the same year. Nobody doubts that 
he did the murders, but despite 27 sepa­
rate appeals of his death sentence, he 
still has not been executed. 
On April 2, 1974, two men, Pierre 
Selby and William Andrews, entered a 
hi-fi shop in Ogden, UT, a city north of 
Salt Lake City, the second-largest city 
in the State, and approached the clerk 
behind the counter as if they were just 
customers. When these 2 fled hours 
later, they left five people dead. 
Before committing the murders, An­
drews and Selby first tortured their 
bound and helpless victims, three 
unsuspecting teenagers who had just 
happened to be shopping in this very 
popular store were forced to drink cups 
of poisonous liquid drain cleaner, 
Drano, if you will. This is what these 
fellows did. The father of one of these 
young people was even forced to pour 
the deadly Drano down the throat of 
his own son. When he refused to do so, 
Selby wrapped an electrical cord 
around his throat and attempted to 
strangle him to death. Then while the 
father struggled for breath, Selby re­
peatedly kicked a sharp ballpoint pen 
deep into his ear and destroyed the ear­
drum in his ear. 
Then Andrews and Selby finished me­
thodically. They shot each of their 
bound victims one by one in the head. 
Michelle Ainsley, however, was not 
even granted a swift end to her tor­
tures. Before she was fatally shot, 
Selby dragged her into the back room 
and raped her. 
We simply cannot begin to imagine 
the agony of mothers and fathers, 
wives and husbands, brothers and sis­
ters whose lives were permanently 
marred, maybe even destroyed, by 
Pierre Selby and William Andrews. We 
cannot begin to imagine the permanent 
damage done to countless lives. 
I personally know many wonderful 
people in Ogden, UT, whose lives are 
still not completely healed more than 
17 years later from this heinous of­
fense. The tragedy in this case is the 
heinous murderers of innocent victims, 
five shoppers who were tortured to 
death. 
Before we get lost in abstractions of 
habeas corpus law, before we wear out 
our hands wringing them over the sup­
posed constitutional rights of vicious 
murderers, we need to understand the 
real consequences of this case, the 
deaths, the shattered lives of those left 
behind. The families who have to go on 
without a father. Most importantly for 
today, we must understand how this 
case will be allowed to continue to 
blight peoples' lives with the retro­
activity provisions if the conference re­
port section 1104 become law. 
William Andrews continues to appeal 
his sentence, and has so far succeeded 
in delaying his execution for 17 years. 
But today, at last, the end is in sight, 
but not if we are so unwise as to pass 
the conference report. If the retro­
acti vi ty provision of this conference 
report passes, the Andrews case will 
never end, of that I am certain. 
In 17 years of appeal, William An­
drews has not raised one single meri­
torious issue on appeal. Not one. But 
the supporters of this bill now propose 
to allow Andrews to go back in time to 
1978 when his criminal conviction be­
came final to let him see if he cannot 
find one more case, one more argu­
ment, one more chance to avoid his 
death sentence. 
The suppose repeal of the Supreme 
Court's retroactivity cases is the great­
est gift to prison inmates in American 
and applies to all, not just some, all 
State prisoners. And I have to say it is 
a terrible provision. 
That is why the president will veto 
this bill. It is one of the reasons. That 
is why every attorney general of every 
State that I know of opposes it. 
That is why the president of the 
Florida Prosecuting Attorneys Asso­
ciation, Joseph D'Alessandro, wrote us 
last summer to oppose the Senate 
amendment that contains the retro­
activity now embodied in the con­
ference report. 
That is why the National District At­
torney's Association opposes the prin­
cipal provision of the conference re­
port. 
That is why on June 25, 1991, 16 of the 
elected State attorneys of the State of 
Florida wrote their Senators, urging 
them not to vote for any amendment 
that would repeal or restrict the Su­
preme Court decision in Teague versus 
Lane. Those 16 prosecutors constitute 
all of the circuit prosecutors in Flor­
ida, except three who could not be con­
tacted on such short notice. They were 
unanimous in their view. 
Only one habeas amendment consid­
ered by this body met the criteria for 
their support. It was the habeas title of 
S. 1241 that now lies in the trash bin of 
the Judiciary Committee conference 
room, replaced by the entirely unac­
ceptable House habeas provisions of the 
liberal members of the House and Sen­
ate Judiciary Committees in spite of 
the fact that the Senate voted over­
whelmingly to change these matters. 
Reversing Teague versus Lane, as the 
conference report does, will be the 
greatest gift to prison inmates in 
years. Every convict will immediately 
want to subscribe to U.S. Law Week, so 
that on Monday mornings he or she can 
look to see what new decisions have 
been handed down by the Supreme 
Court: What new case can be cited in a 
new habeas petition seeking release 
from jail and return to the streets. 
This issue is not about whether State 
prisoners are to have "one bite of the 
apple." Every convicted prisoner gets 
eight or nine bites of the apple on di­
rect appeal and through State 
postconviction procedures before he 
even turns to Federal habeas. 
But Federal habeas corpus is not 
about giving prisoners a second bite of 
the apple, it is about giving prisoners a 
10th bite of the apple, even a 20th bite 
of the apple. If only the problem were 
as simple as a second bite of the apple. 
William Andrews has already re­
ceived 27 bites, but the crime bill con­
ferees have decided to give him just as 
many chances to appeal again. Revers­
ing the Supreme Court's retroactivity 
decisions will, in effect, allow William 
Andrews to · start his appeals all over 
again. 
I will allow convicted prisoners a sec­
ond bite of the apple, and a 10th bite, 
too. But I will not give them the whole 
orchard, as the conference report would 
do. 
Mr. President, since 1976, over 3,000 
persons have been sentenced to death 
row, yet only slighly more than 100 of 
these sentences have been carried out. 
I am continuously asked by Utah citi­
zens, in letters too numerous to count, 
what is going on here? What is wrong 
with our criminal justice system? Well, 
I think we all know what is wrong-it's 
the Federal habeas corpus system. 
We all know what is wrong; we all 
know how to fix it. And if we do not 
know, then we have the attorneys gen­
eral, the prosecutors, and the law en­
forcement personnel of virtually every 
jurisdiction on record to tell us. 
This bill would be the worst thing for 
law enforcement you could have. Many 
of the things they claim are tough on 
crime are without other provisions 
that let criminals off that are in this 
bill. They give, on the one hand, tough 
criminal provisions and take them 
away on the other, and we think we 
should not take them away. The bill 
filed by Senator THURMOND makes 
them tough and does not take them 
away. 
I have to say that all of these pros­
ecutors, all of these · attorneys general, 
all of these law enforcement personnel 
who are against this conference report 
all say one thing: Habeas reform, but 
do not overturn the good decisions of 
the Supreme Court. Do not let the 
House and Senate liberals overturn 
Teague versus Lane and reopen cases 
that have been closed for decades. 
If any Senator today has any ques­
tion about whether this conference re­
port is truly a crime bill, they do not 
have to take my word on it. Call your 
own State's attorney general and ask 
him or her. They know the issue, and I 
am confident as to what their response 
will be. They know this is no crime bill 
and that is what most will tell you­
Democrat and Republican alike. 
Yet it is being passed off as a tough­
on-crime bill because it has lots of 
money in it. It does have good criminal 
provisions but they cannot be enforced 
with these types of laws that they like 
on the other side. 
I hope, Mr. President, that at some 
time in the future I may finally pro-

--- PDF PAGE 37 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4527 
vide a favorable answer to my constitu­
ents who ask what is wrong with the 
criminal justice system. I hope I can 
someday finally tell them that Con­
gress has acted to end the absurdity of 
endless 15- and 18-year appeals. 
I certainly hope that I do not have to 
tell them that Congress has actually 
acted to make things worse by passing 
the conference report. I know that · I 
will never be able to explain that one 
to them. 
So I plan to do everything I can to 
stop it, and I think it ought to be 
stopped. 
Yesterday, the distinguished Senator 
from Delaware [Mr. BIDEN] denied that 
the conference report would have any 
effect on the case of California mur­
derer Charles Manson. I took a dif­
ferent view, and I think most people 
who have studied this carefully will 
take a different view. I said we could 
not say for sure whether Manson could 
be released if he could find some favor­
able decision to cite-some decisions 
decided in the 25 years since his convic­
tion. If nothing else, the conference re­
port gives Manson the incentive to try 
a new habeas petition; he has nothing 
to lose by doing so if this conference 
report becomes the law. 
Earlier today, Senator SEYMOUR ex­
pressed his reluctance to accept the 
risks that the conference report might 
contain the key for Charles Manson to 
open his jailhouse door. Senator SEY­
MOUR made the sensible suggestion 
that unless this Senate was unani­
mously convinced that the conference 
report does not reopen long closed 
cases, we could not responsibly vote to 
approve the conference report. I cer­
tainly agree with that. 
In addition, since I began my re­
marks here today, I have received a 
letter from the attorney general of 
California who knows where Manson is 
residing right now, who knows about 
his prison sentence, who knows about 
the murders he committed, who knows 
what an insane, worthless human being 
he is. 
I would like to share with my col­
leagues the legal opinion of the attor­
ney general of the State of California, 
Attorney General Lungren. This is 
dated March 5, 1992: 
STATE OF CALIFORNIA, 
Sacramento, CA, March 5, 1992. 
Hon. ORRIN G. HATCH, 
U.S. Senator, Russell Senate Office Building, 
Washington, DC. 
DEAR SENATOR HATCH: I understand that 
the question has arisen during the crime bill 
debate whether the retroactivity provisions 
in the conference report would allow pris­
oners such as Charles Manson to file federal 
habeas petitions based upon the definition of 
"new rules" in the bill. 
My department has concluded that the 
sweeping retroactivity provisions included in 
the bill would not foreclose any capital or 
non-capital prisoner in California from at­
tempting to challenge his conviction based 
upon new rules developed after the final con­
viction. In this manner, the conference re-
port overturns current law; promotes repeti­
tious litigation; and destroys the interest in 
finality obtained under the Teague doctrine. 
The problem with the conference report is 
that its definition of a "new rule" is so re­
strictive that hardly any decision would 
qualify as a "new rule." Thus, virtually any 
federal court decision could be applied retro­
actively. The breadth of the retroactivity 
provision is not limited to capital cases, but 
provides new potential avenues of relief for 
any prisoner-whether he is a mass mur­
derer, rapist, or bank robber. For this rea­
son, the bill may be more appropriately enti­
tled the Prisoner Relief Act. 
Therefore, while I am reluctant to suggest 
to course of action that any particular pris­
oner might take, I can unequivocally state 
that the conference report has the potential 
to provide every individual in the California 
prison system, including some of the most 
notorious murderers in our nation's history, 
an opportunity to pursue fresh rounds of 
"new rule" litigation. The conference report 
clearly overturns current law and under­
mines the Teague doctrine. The importance 
of the Teague doctrine has been dem­
onstrated in recent cases, including the lat­
est habeas petition brought by Robert Alton 
Harris, who brutally murdered two San 
Diego teenagers in 1978 and who confessed 
seven times. There, the Teague doctrine 
served as a bar to new claims based upon 
precedent established after his final convic­
tion was upheld in 1981. Similarly, Horace 
Butler, who raped and murdered Pamela 
Lane near Charleston, South Carolina, in 
1988 and who also confessed to the murder, 
was barred from bringing new claims based 
upon " new rules" developed after his convic­
tion had become final. Under the bill, Butler, 
Harris, and a host of other convicted mur­
derers could bring yet more claims based on 
new rules. 
The bottom line is that it is simply not 
worth taking the risk to provide convicted 
prisoners new opportunities for litigation 
that are not available under current law. In­
stead , the Senate should reject the con­
ference report and adopt legislation which 
will support the interests of law enforce­
ment, provide finality of judgment, and take 
the interests of victims and their families 
into account. 
Sincerely, 
DANIELE. LUNGREN, 
Attorney General. 
P.S.-Perhaps the most offensive aspect of 
this entire debate on the Conference Com­
mittee's so-called "crime bill" is the almost 
total disregard of its impact on crime vic­
tims and their families. Isn 't it about time 
that the "world's greatest deliberative body" 
begin to view the criminal justice system 
from the perspective of the victims of crime 
and their families rather than that of crimi­
nals convicted and sentenced for society's 
worst crimes? 
I think that is a whale of a letter 
from the attorney general of the larg­
est populated State in the Union-35 
million people. I think he is making it 
very clear that not only convicted 
murderers would have a right to assert 
new rules every time the Supreme 
Court rules, but everybody in the pris­
on system in California and every 
other prison system throughout this 
country would have that right. It 
would throw the courts into chaos 
while at the same time making unen­
forceable most, if not all, capital pun­
ishments that are on record. 
Need I repeat at this point the well­
known epigram that "justice delayed is 
justice denied"? 
Our colleague from Alabama, Senator 
HEFLIN, has spoken eloquently on this 
subject, former Supreme Court Chief 
Justice in Alabama. He said: 
There is no doubt that the problems of fi­
nality and integrity in State court judg­
ments * * * have an acute effect on the en­
forcement of our criminal law. This is not a 
recent phenomenon. The Bible well describes 
the tendencies of human nature when it 
states in Ecclesiastes 8:11: "Because sentence 
against an evil work is not executed speed­
ily, the heart of the sons of men is fully set 
to do evil." 
As the Bible so often teaches us, in 
the area of crime and punishment, the 
fundamental issues of justice do not 
change. 
Mr. President, I have a lot more to 
say but I understand my distinguished 
colleague from Arizona is here and he 
would like to have some time. I am 
glad to yield the floor at this point. 
Mr. DECONCINI addressed the Chair. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen­
ator from Arizona. 
Mr. DECONCINI. Mr. President, I 
thank my friend from Utah. 
Though I find myself in agreement 
with the distinguished Senator from 
Utah so many times, I have to say that 
I do not agree with the Senator's state­
ments here that this conference report 
is soft on crime, and that we are going 
to permit people to get out of jail. 
Even the distinguished citation that 
the Senator uses from the attorney 
general of California, Mr. Lungren, is 
of great interest. Mr. Lungren served 
in the House of Representatives for I 
think 10 years, if I am not mistaken. I 
served on conference committees with 
him. 
We know what is happening here. 
This has become a political problem, in 
my judgment , a political problem for . 
those who do not want to see a crime 
bill passed today, who feel that we 
should not have a crime bill that is 
going to appear to be a crime bill that 
the President has not put his stamp on. 
I submit, Mr. President, that is the 
wrong way to approach the problem of 
ever-increasing crime, violence, and 
lawlessness that is going on in this 
country, in this city, in my State of 
Arizona. 
So I rise in support of the conference 
report. It is one of the most com­
prehensive crime packages in recent 
history. I have seen a lot of crime bills 
, pass here in the short 15 years that I 
have been around, and this is the 
toughest one that we have ever had. 
Our House colleagues have passed this 
measure, and we should also adopt it. 
So it is here, folks. It is ready to be 
launched. There were over 24,000 mur­
ders in the United States last year. 
This country is under siege, and it is 
time we do something about it. 
We have an opportunity to do some­
thing about it today or tomorrow when 

--- PDF PAGE 38 ---
4528 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
the cloture vote comes about. Yet we 
find our Republican colleagues are 
complaining that their provisions were 
stripped from the conference report. 
Well, so were mine. 
This is not the bill that I would have 
introduced and that I would like to 
have seen passed as the national crime 
bill for 1992. But it is interesting to 
note that the bulk of this bill has the 
tools that the law enforcement people 
want to apply against the criminals of 
this country. 
I had an assault weapons provision in 
this bill that passed two times in this 
body, once very narrowly, and the next 
time it was unanimous without even a 
contested rollcall vote. 
I feel very strongly about that bill. I 
argued here that maybe this assault 
weapons provision would really do 
something to alter the use of these 
high-velocity weapons in the killing of 
Americans in our cities and throughout 
our country, and in the use against law 
enforcement. 
So we debated it here for days. It 
came down to a very close vote. It 
passed by two votes and yet it was 
stripped out of the conference report. I 
was very disappointed. 
So what do you do when you lose 
something in the conference report 
that you feel very strongly about? Do 
you pick up your bag, go home, and 
say, well, that is it; if I do not get 100 
percent of what I want in this bill, then 
I am going to filibuster it; I am going 
to see that law enforcement does not 
have the provisions to take on criminal 
elements? 
I would like to have that assault 
weapons ban in the bill. 
It also had a provision in the bill 
that I did not support. Yet, I went 
along with the Senate bill. It had the 
so-called Brady bill, a awaiting period 
that I had opposed consistently be­
cause I did not think the Federal Gov­
ernment should impose that. I voted 
against that on the Senate floor. 
So I had an opportunity under this 
process. We all know how it works so I 
do not even want to go into any of the 
details. 
I had an opportunity to talk against 
the bill, the Brady bill. I had an oppor­
tunity to vote against it. It was passed. 
And the full bill was passed with my 
assault weapon provision, with the 
Brady bill, and we went to conference. 
And the conference report took out the 
assault weapon provision. 
Did I pick up my bag and go home 
and say never again? No. Are we going 
to leave law enforcement stranded? Are 
. we going to let the public go ahead, 
and be murdered and assaulted? Are we 
just not going to do anything else be­
cause this provision was not in there? 
I am not happy with the habeas cor­
pus provision in this conference report. 
It is not restrictive enough. I expressed 
my views very clearly on the floor. I 
voted for the President's proposal that 
was offered by the distinguished Sen­
ator from South Carolina. We did suc­
ceed. We did pass that version, which 
was tougher than the one that is in the 
bill before us. But in the conference we 
compromised because we got.-! will 
get to it shortly-53 death penalties. 
That is something I have fought for 
around here for 15 years-to see the 
death penalty reimposed on the Fed­
eral level. 
I also supported the exclusionary 
rule that was offered by Senator THUR­
MOND, but that provision did not make 
it into the conference. We lost that on 
the floor of the Senate. Senator RUD­
MAN, the distinguished Senator from 
New Hampshire, led the effort against 
the Thurmond provision. He prevailed. 
I was not happy about that. I did not 
like that because I had seen the exclu­
sionary rule used firsthand as a pros­
ecutor before I came to this body, both 
in the Federal courts, and in the State 
courts. Indeed, I felt that we had to 
change that. So that was not available 
as a tool for the defense to throw out 
the whole case. 
The Republicans have resurrected the 
Thurmond exclusionary rule provision 
as one of the provisions that justify 
voting against this bipartisan, I think, 
effort. And they are making it a par­
tisan effort. The public is going to see 
that if they have not already. 
We lost the cloture vote to bring this 
up for a vote right before we adjourned 
in October. We lost it because the Re­
publicans would not vote for this con­
ference report. 
The habeas corpus and the exclusion­
ary provisions in the bill are not just 
the way I would like to see them, but 
I am willing to live with that, as is 
every law enforcement organization in 
America. 
So we are not here offering a crime 
bill that is soft on crime and because 
the attorney general of California says 
he does not like it, and a few other 
prosecutors say we do not like it be­
cause it does not have habeas corpus or 
the exclusionary rule. We have heard 
time and time again about what law 
enforcement thinks. 
What about the people that are on 
the frontline on a day-to-day basis pro­
tecting you and me and the rest of the 
citizens? The Fraternal Order of Police, 
the largest organization of police offi­
cers, supports this and says, as the dis­
tinguished Senator from Delaware said 
yesterday how important it was to 
them, that it was the most important 
crime bill in recent memory. 
The National Association of Police 
Organizations, the International Asso­
ciation of Chiefs of Police, the Inter­
national Brotherhood of Police Offi­
cers, and the National Sheriffs Associa­
tion, just to name a few organizations 
that say give us these tools so that we 
can do something today, so we do not 
have to wait and keep getting cut down 
by the criminal elements in this coun­
tl,'y. 
The conference report provides the 
largest ever expansion of the Federal 
death penalty. It will cover 53 offenses 
that are not covered today. Tell me 
that is soft on crime? Hogwash. You 
could not get any tougher on crime. 
You are going to have the death pen­
alty on murder of Federal law enforce­
ment officers, that you do not have 
today; murder in the course of a rape; 
murder for hire; drive-by shooting; 
death penalty on drug kingpins. Is that 
tough on crime? Of course it is tough 
on crime. 
It converts 10 closed military bases 
today into boot camps for youthful of­
fenders, an approach that almost ev­
erybody says let us try. This is an ef­
fort to do something to make people 
feel a responsibility once they have 
been convicted of some crime. 
It authorizes 8,000 new prison cells to 
hold the drug criminals in this country 
today. Is that tough on crime? Of 
course, it is. It directs $1 billion to the 
State and local law enforcement. That 
is what we need-more cooperation, 
more funds on the local level to work 
with the Federal authorities; and this 
bill does it. 
A new effort to combat gang violence 
is included here. There are new pen­
alties for terrorist acts, and increases 
in existing penalties for repeat drug of­
fenses, assaults, manslaughter, and 
crimes against the elderly. Is that 
tough on crime, to get tough on people 
who commit and prey on the elderly? 
That is not soft on crime; it is tough. 
You are darn right, it is tough. 
If this bill becomes law and you prey 
on the elderly or you commit some of 
the crimes that are in here, you are 
going to die if you are convicted of 
those crimes. 
The bill expands aid to crime victims 
and permits them to speak at the sen­
tencing of their assailants. How many 
times have any of you heard from your 
constituents about the need of some­
body paying attention to the victims of 
the crime? Well, here the victim is 
going to get an opportunity, if this bill 
passes, to come and tell their story be­
fore the sentencing judge imposes sen­
tence. If it is relevant, fine; if it is not, 
fine. At least, the victim will be con­
sidered, perhaps for the first time. 
That, to me, is getting very tough on 
crime. 
Unlike the President's recently re­
leased budget, this proposal does some-' 
thing for law enforcement. It equips 
and trains 500 new border patrol offi­
cers to halt the flow of drugs across the 
Southwest border. Coming from that 
part of the country, there is nothing 
more prominent in our problems right 
now with drugs in the State of Arizona 
than the fact that the border patrol has 
gone down in the last 3 years in person­
nel on the border from 305 to 249. The 
last time it was at 305 was in an elec­
tion year. 
Four years ago, the administration 
pushed in some more border patrol. 

--- PDF PAGE 39 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4529 
And now we are talking about adding a 
few because it is an election year. This 
bill adds them permanently, and adds 
500, not the 8, that are going to come 
into Arizona under the President's 
budget. 
This conference report authorizes 
hundreds of new FBI, DEA, and U.S. at­
torneys to combat the crimes resulting 
from the drug epidemic. I know in my 
State, the U.S. attorneys cannot do all 
the work with the personnel they have. 
My Republican colleagues have intro­
duced their own new and improved 
crime bill this week. By their own ad­
mission, their bill contains virtually 
everything in the conference report ex­
cept the few items that they have ar­
ticulated here. 
They have come a long way. Now 
they agree with the provisions I have 
mentioned above. Indeed, now they 
have some of the provisions that I in­
troduced are in there: The National 
Commission to Support Law Enforce­
ment is in their bill. I would like to 
thank them for putting it in there. The 
sports gaming lottery bill is in there; I 
thank them for putting it in there, just 
to name a few. All of the death pen­
al ties in this conference report are in 
that Republican bill that has been in­
troduced. 
But my Republican colleagues will 
not accept the conference report be­
cause of provisions that many of them 
even voted for on the Senate . floor. 
That crime bill that did pass this body 
with the habeas corpus prov1s1on, 
which they supported, and is modified, 
passed with 26 Republicans. Now we are 
going to see how many of those Repub­
licans will stand up tomorrow when we 
have the cloture vote and support pas­
sage of a final crime bill that does deal 
with habeas corpus; not just perfectly 
the way I want it, but does deal with 
habeas corpus and adds all these other 
very important provisions. 
They want to play politics with this 
conference report. Why? I do not know. 
With that approach, we will never have 
a crime bill, and our law enforcement 
people will not be prepared. Who gets 
hurt? The American public. 
Why are our Republican colleagues 
opposing this bill? It is because they 
say it is "soft on crime." If anybody 
wants to talk about being soft on 
crime, I sure hope my colleagues have 
taken the time to look at what this ad­
ministration is doing right now in 
south Florida. 
What I am talking about is simply 
this. I am talking about the sweetheart 
plea bargains and agreements that the 
administration has been handing out, 
one after another, to some of the most 
notorious drug kingpins ever arrested 
and prosecuted in this country. · 
Why are they treating these drug 
kingpins like some model citizens? Be­
cause their past relationship with 
Manuel Noriega, the former dictator of 
Panama, has come back to haunt this 
administration, and handing out these 
ridiculous deals and plea bargains as 
their last resort to convict them. 
Well, I hope they convict them. If 
they cannot convict him without hand­
ing out short sentences to some of the 
biggest drug dealers in the world, then 
there is something wrong with the ad­
ministration's policy. This administra­
tion's policy is now what is soft on 
crime. For my colleagues and those in 
the American public who do not know 
about this policy, let me give a few ex­
amples, illustrated by this chart to my 
right. 
The group the prosecution assembled 
in the Noriega trial, the group doing it, 
and the people who are being given 
these highly visible deals on plea bar­
gaining, sounds like a Who's Who in 
criminal activities and in drug dealings 
in the Federal prison system. 
Let me tell you about Colonel Del 
Cid, this gentleman right here, the 
former Noriega bagman. He was facing 
70 years in jail on four courts of drug 
trafficking and racketeering. Noriega 
prosecutors dropped three of those 
counts and recommended a maximum 
of 19 years instead of the 70 years that 
he would have received. They also 
promised not to deport him after he 
gets out after 19 years. We do not know 
when he will be on parole. 
Ricardo Bilonick had been hunted for 
years by this country, by our law en­
forcement officers, for bringing in a 
2,100-pound shipment of cocaine in 1984. 
He should have served 60 years; that is 
what he should have received when 
they convicted him. Yet, with parole, 
he will be out in 7 years, maybe less. 
Shockingly, our Government has prom­
ised to urge other countries that he not 
be prosecuted. He is a witness in the 
Noriega case. 
Nevertheless, the biggest travesty of 
all is the sweetheart deal handed down 
to Carlos Lehder by the Bush adminis­
tration. Lehder, this person right here, 
one of the founding members of the fa­
mous Colombian drug cartel , and an 
admitted admirer of Adolf Hitler , is the 
most notorious cocaine trafficker in 
the world ever apprehended by any­
body. 
More than any other individual, Car­
los Lehder was responsible for the de­
velopment, growth, and supply of the 
cocaine market in the United States. 
At one time, Lehder was responsible­
and attributed by our law enforcement 
people-for 80 percent of the cocaine 
that entered the United States. 
He is a vicious criminal who is re­
sponsible for thousands of deaths in Co­
lombia. The tens of thousands of 
pounds of cocaine and other drugs he 
has smuggled into this country has 
caused unprecedented violence and 
murder in the streets of America, and 
created millions of drug addicts and 
crack babies in our country, and who 
knows what other countries. 
In what was considered the most im­
portant drug-trafficking trial in his-
tory, Lehder, this person, was con­
victed in 1988, and sentenced to life im­
prisonment plus 135 years. That is a 
pretty good sentence-and I com­
pliment the administration-if they 
just let it stand. 
So how did the narcoterrorist end up 
testifying for our Government against 
Noriega? Lehder himself was lobbying 
for a spot on the Noriega trial as part 
of the prosecution. At the Noriega 
trial, Lehder himself stated that he 
was testifying in behalf of the Govern­
ment against Noriega in the hopes of 
winning a reduced sentence that would 
allow him to return to Colombia, to his 
home country. 
He was transferred out of the coun­
try's highest security prison, the Fed­
eral prison in Marion, IL. The Justice 
Department claims that was for per­
sonal safety reasons. I have been to 
that prison. You are safe there. I can 
tell you, nobody is going to touch you 
if that is where they put you. How can 
moving him out of that make it any 
more secure? The worst thing is he is 
going to be out on the street before we 
know it. And he is going to get a re­
duced sentence. Mark my word, it is 
coming down, and we will see it here 
shortly after the end of the trial with 
Noriega. 
We also know that the administra­
tion went a long way with Mr. Lehder's 
wishes to bring eight members of his 
family into the United States under 
the Protective Witness Program. I 
wonder how much that is costing the 
American taxpayer. At one time the 
motto of Colombia drug Lords was that 
"we prefer a grave in Colombia to a jail 
in the United States." With the new 
Bush policy on plea bargain agree­
ments, Colombia drug traffickers are 
requesting deals with this country, 
"Let me be a witness against whoever 
you are prosecuting because I know 
you will let me out of jail. You will let 
me not be prosecuted by other coun­
tries." 
Colombia drug lord Pablo Escobar, 
who surrendered to the Colombian Gov­
ernment in June, is now sitting in his 
private luxurious prison outside his 
home town. He continues to run his co­
caine empire from within. In late De­
cember, Escobar proposed his own deal 
to the U.S. Government. He wanted to 
provide evidence against Noriega in ex­
change for handling over all the evi­
dence we have against him. I am sur­
prised our Government did not do it. 
Maybe six or seven drug kingpins was 
just enough that they could swallow 
and they could not swallow one more. 
It was once a stated policy of the ad­
ministration to prosecute drug king­
pins-Carlos Lehder, Escobar, Del Cid, 
Bilonick, any of the other ones-to the 
fullest extent possible. That is the kind 
of policy that I call tough on crime. 
Clearly, that policy has been replaced 
by a misguided policy that caters to 
the most notorious drug traffickers in 
the world. 

--- PDF PAGE 40 ---
4530 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
Earlier today, my good friend from 
Mississippi, I understand, cla.imed that 
the conference report coddled crimi­
nals. I ask my Republican colleagues to 
explain this policy that I just laid out 
if you want to talk about coddling 
criminals. This policy is a Prisoner 
Protection Act for those who have been 
convicted of bringing drugs into this 
country. That is what we have today 
going on with this Justice Department 
and the Bush administration. 
Last November, we listened to Presi­
dent Bush threaten to veto this con­
ference report. Here we are again today 
listening to the rhetoric from our good 
colleagues that this is soft on crime. 
That is nonsense, and they know it. 
Yet, under the conference report, if we 
get to pass it and it becomes the law of 
this land, there would be no more op­
portunity for bargaining with the Car­
los Lehders or the Pablo Escobars of 
this world. They would be gone. You 
know why? Because they would have 
received the death penalty under these 
types of convictions right here. He 
would not be able to bargain for any­
thing. 
I hope the American public sees 
through what is going on here and, in­
deed, that we are prepared to walk that 
plank. We, who are offering the con­
ference report, do not claim that it has 
everything in it, but we can stand up 
with pride saying these are the tools 
that American law enforcement want, 
that the American public wants and 
that they deserve, and it is about time 
we move forward and get this behind 
us. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
LIEBERMAN). The Senator from Ala­
bama. 
TRIBUTE TO HENRY TURNER 
Mr. HEFLIN. Mr. President, I want 
to talk about a public servant, a law 
enforcement officer. An Alabama jour­
nalist once wrote that, fortunately, 
Washington, DC, is full of those public 
servants who still get the shivers when 
the curtain goes up on another day of 
democracy. They are not jaded or 
pompous or self-important-not full of 
high-toned speeches or bombast. Of 
course, they work for money, but 
sometimes you get the feeling they 
might work for more than that. Most 
of my colleagues know one of these 
public servants the journalist wrote 
about to be Officer Henry L. Turner, a 
long-time member of the Capitol Police 
Department's fearless five Senate door 
contingent. I am also fortunate to 
know this Alabama .native, who retired 
from the force at the end of last month 
after 20 years of service, as a dear 
friend. 
Henry Turner literally traveled to 
the ends of the Earth on his journey 
from his home on the South Side of 
Birmingham, Alabama, to the corridors 
of the Nation's Capitol Building. As a 
young black man coming of age during 
the late 1940's and early 1950's, he dis­
covered the harsh realities of racial 
discrimination when he was passed 
over for a job that he was eminently 
qualified for. Joining the Army in 1950, 
he served in Korea with the segregated 
24th Infantry Regiment. Six months 
after his enlistment, Henry found him­
self in Japan recovering from bullet 
wounds to his side and legs. He was 
awarded the Bronze Star and Purple 
Heart for his bravery in battle. 
He made the Army his home and ca­
reer for the next 20 years, serving in 
Germany, Japan, Vietnam, Korea, and 
throughout the United States, retiring 
as a sergeant first class. A chance en­
counter with a Capitol policeman led 
Henry to the job he loved for so many 
years. He was on a Washington tour 
when spotted a man he thought he 
knew. Although the man turned out to 
be someone else, he· was a retired serv­
iceman as well. He told Henry, "If 
you're retired, you can get up here, 
too." 
From the time he joined the Capitol 
Police Department in January 1972, 
Henry had his eye on the Senate door 
post detail, known as the fearless five. 
When he got one of the jobs 2 years 
later, he felt that he had secured the 
plum position on the force. "This job 
goes beyond my wildest dreams in 
terms of meeting people. When the 
Senate is in session you get a chance to 
see so much," he said. "I consider it an 
honor to work here." 
During his tenure on the police force, 
Henry became somewhat of a "good 
will ambassador-at-large," constantly 
showing groups around the Capitol, 
pointing out historical places and arti­
facts, telling political anecdotes, and 
answering provocative questions about 
our history.. He became an authority on 
the legacy of the building itself and on 
the behind-the-scenes rough and tum­
ble of the legislative process. His files 
are brimming with dozens of gracious 
letters of thanks and appreciation from 
those he has assisted over the years. 
The late Carter Manasco, a former 
Alabama Congressman and long-time 
public relations executive, once said 
that Henry was the best ambassador 
for Alabama there was in Washington; 
the people he worked with said that 
since he seemed to always be showing 
people from his State around, he must 
be running for Senator himself. Having 
successfully earned the title of "Ala­
bama Ambassador Extraordinaire," 
Henry might yet come to prove his 
former colleagues on the police force 
right by declaring his candidacy for the 
U.S. Senate. 
Meanwhile, I am proud and thankful 
to have Henry volunteering in my of­
fice part-time in an effort to continue 
these legendary good will missions for 
visitors from our State. His warm per­
sonality, keen sense of humor, shrewd 
political acumen, deep sense of history, 
and infectious laugh all come together 
to end a much welcomed and unique 
dynamic to the hectic routine of a Sen­
ate office. 
Yes, Mr. President, Henry Turner did 
come a long way after being passed 
over for a job at that tire-recapping 
shop all those years ago. Just about all 
of us in this Chamber, and dozens of 
our former colleagues, know him by 
name, and he has met every President 
since Richard Nixon. He used to carry 
the key to then-Vice President Bush's 
ceremonial office right in his pocket. 
About 10 years ago, Henry remarked 
to a news reporter from his hometown 
that the security and prosperity he 
found in life was not something he en­
visioned for himself when growing up 
in Birmingham. He said, 
I never dreamed I'd be buying a car. I 
wasn't raised with that. We weren't really 
poor, but we never had a whole lot at one 
time. Who would have thought * * * that I'd 
be up here opening the door to let the U.S. 
Senate come in to go to work? 
Mr. President, I congratulate Henry 
Turner on his retirement and commend 
him for this many years of impeccable 
service and untiring commitment to 
this body, his country, and his State. I 
wish Henry all the best for a long, 
happy, and healthy retirement, one 
that his wife Gertha, and their son 
Adrian, who interns in my office peri­
odically, might enjoy with him to its 
fullest. I ask unanimous consent that a 
1986 news article on Henry be printed 
in the RECORD. 
There being no objection, the article 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 
STOP WHEN HENRY SAYS 
(By Randy Quarles) 
WASHINGTON.-Birmingham native Henry 
L. Turner occasionally harks back to his 
service as an Army sergeant to call cadence, 
but these days he gives his marching orders 
to reporters in the U.S. Capitol. 
Turner, 57, and four other Capitol Police 
officers-they're known as the "Fearless 
Five"-are assigned to guard the second­
floor hallway and reception room outside the 
Senate chamber. 
When the Senate is acting on controversial 
topics, reporters and lobbyists swarm around 
the Fearless Five's domain to buttonhole ar­
riving or departing lawmakers. That's when 
Turner and his colleagues really swing into 
action. 
"The most difficult part of the job, when­
ever there is a roll-call vote, is in keeping 
the press and lobbyists out of the way so the 
senators can get in and vote," explained 
Turner recently. 
So Turner has worked out a simple but ef­
fective system with the regular Capitol Hill 
journalists to maintain an open route for 
senators: 
He says, "Hup, two, three, four," and the 
reporters move. 
They know that, despite his broad smile, 
he means business. 
"But I like the press," said Turner during 
an interview in the Senate Press Gallery, 
one floor above his usual stomping grounds. 
And the press apparently likes Turner, too. 
During the interview, reporters from the 
New York Times and other outlets paused to 
say hello and banter with him. 

--- PDF PAGE 41 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4531 
"They've got a hard job," said Turner, as 
one of the reporters left after ribbing him for 
being in the press gallery. He's never had 
any serious problems with reporters, he said, 
and usually no one's feathers get ruffled. 
Sometimes, though; tempers do flare, 
Turner said. Lowering his voice, he nodded 
toward a woman seated at one end of the 
press room. 
"That lady got mad yesterday," he said, 
chuckling. 
Turner came to Washington after 21 years 
in the Army, from which he retired as a ser­
geant first class with a Purple Heart from 
the Korean War. He and his wife of 20 years, 
Gertha, now live in nearby Riverdale, Md., 
with their 14-year-old son, Adrian. 
He has spent most of his 14 years with the 
Capitol Police outside the Senate chamber, 
one of the force's most coveted jobs. He re­
ports to work each day an hour before the 
Senate goes into session, and generally stays 
as long as the lawmakers do-although if the 
session goes around the clock, he · is spelled 
late in the evening for a four-hour respite. 
"Our primary responsibility is to protect 
members of Congress and to assist them and 
their staffs, al ways keeping security in 
mind," said Turner. 
Security around the Capitol in general has 
tightened noticeably in recent years, par­
ticularly since a bomb exploded late one 
night in 1983 a few feet from the then-empty 
Senate chamber . No one was injured in the 
blast. 
Nevertheless, Turner said his routine has 
remained pretty much the same, because "in 
our area, security always has been tight." 
"We do more work here than anyone else 
on the Hill, as far as police work," he said 
with a touch of pride. 
One of the job's bonuses for Turner is the 
opportunity to meet some of the nation's 
most powerful men and women. He has 
known every senator who has served since 
1972-something few can say. 
"I really think it's great when you can 
stand there and see them come in," said 
Turner. And when he reads in the newspaper 
about one of them, he said, "I can associate 
with such a guy-I know him." 
Sen. Howell T. Heflin, D-Ala., of 
Tuscumbia, praised Turner's dedication to 
his job. 
"He is extremely accommodating and help­
ful to all the senators," said Heflin. "If there 
was a poll of all the senators, Henry Turner 
would rank No. 1 as the most accommodat­
ing. 
"Besides, he's a good policeman, and that 
in itself is a high accolade." 
Turner frequently goes above and beyond 
the call of duty to help his fellow Alabam­
ians, too, Heflin continued. 
Both Heflin and Sen. Jeremiah Denton, R­
Ala., of Mobile, sometimes refer their visi­
tors to Turner for a special tour of the Cap­
itol during his lunch break or other off-duty 
time. 
"He's extremely knowledgeable about the 
history of the Capitol building and the Unit­
ed States Senate," said Heflin. "Those Ala­
bamians privileged to have had a "Turner 
Tour" sing his praises to the highest." 
Turner would't describe himself as an au­
thority about the Capitol. However, he said, 
"you get more from me than you do from the 
regular tour guides.'' 
"'I'm a lover of people, anyway," he said. 
"The more people that are around me, the 
better it is for me." 
The Turners are thinking about retiring to 
Alabama in another few years, possibly to a 
small tract of land they own near Opelika. 
Or they may buy a place with enough land 
for a good garden somewhere in the Hunts­
ville vicinity, to be near Redstone Arsenal's 
Army hospital and other services for mili­
tary retirees, Turner said. 
Until then, he wants to stay at the door of 
the Senate. 
I love it. I love my work," said Turner. 
Mr. MACK addressed the Chair. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
Chair recognizes the Senator from 
Florida. 
Mr. MACK. Thank you, Mr. Presi­
dent. 
I ask unanimous consent to address 
the Senate as if in morning business 
for not to exceed 5 minutes. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
CAPITAL GAINS 
Mr. MACK. Mr. President, this reces­
sion has made it clear to most Mem­
bers of Congress-that changes in the 
tax treatment of capital gains are nec­
essary. I have argued for a long time 
that a lower capital gains tax rate will 
create jobs, stimulate new business 
growth, and boost capital formation. 
Probably no single policy we can initi­
ate would spur economic growth more 
than a cut in the capital gains tax rate. 
Yet the debate over capital gains has 
been inflamed by partisan political ma­
neuvering. Even though the tax bills 
produced by the Democrats in both the 
House and the Senate have addressed 
capital gains taxes, the majority party 
has cynically combined capital gains 
tax cuts with higher taxes on other in­
come earners: 
There is no doubt that the President 
will veto any tax bill that raises taxes 
and hurts the country by creating a 
false class warfare issue. And he is 
right to veto. Raising taxes is just 
plain wrong. 
I am afraid, however, that we may 
not see another tax bill this year. I am 
concerned that the Democrats will sac­
rifice the livelihoods of Americans in 
their attempt to gain election year ad­
vantage. If this happens, it will mean 
that the Democrats will have once 
again blocked attempts by the Presi­
dent and Republicans in Congress to 
create jobs for Americans. 
Fortunately, there is something the 
President can do about this. It is true 
that the tax rate on capital gains can 
be reduced-for all intents and pur­
poses-by subtracting that part of a 
capital gain that occurs solely because 
of inflation. And an argument has re­
cently been made that capital gains 
taxes can be indexed for inflation with­
out having to pass a law. 
In an excellent article some weeks 
ago, economist Paul Craig Roberts re­
ported that: 
The word "cost" in calculating capital 
gains at the Internal Revenue Service is not 
defined by statute, but by regulation. The 
president can cut the capital gains tax rate 
simply by exercising his authority to change 
the regulatory definition to index capital 
gains for inflation. In other words, the cost 
basis of assets would be adjusted upward to 
include inflation so that purely nominal 
rises in price would no longer be subject to 
taxation as a "capital gain". By subjecting 
only real gains to tax, the tax rate would fall 
significantly. 
Preventing taxation on inflationary 
gains not only would reduce the effec­
tive capital gains tax rate, but it is a 
major step in making the Tax Code 
more fair. Indeed, what could be less 
fair than current law, where taxpayers 
are charged for an inflationary in­
crease which does not benefit them at 
all? 
So, I, along with 15 of my colleagues, 
am sending a letter to President Bush 
which expresses our support for this 
regulatory change which we believe he 
has the authority to make. This 
change would be a major step toward 
creating new jobs and capital, and 
spurring economic growth. 
Mr. President I ask unanimous con­
sent that the letter to which I referred 
be printed in the RECORD. 
There being no objection, the letter 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 
U.S. SENATE, 
Washington, DC, February 20, 1992. 
Hon. GEORGE w. BUSH, 
The White House, Washington, DC. 
DEAR MR. PRESIDENT: As you know' a 
major cause of the high effective tax on cap­
ital gains is that inflationary gains-not just 
real capital gains-are subject to taxation. 
This is not only bad tax policy, it is fun­
damentally unfair. 
Our understanding is that the flaw in the 
tax code does not need a legislative correc­
tion, but only requires a change in a regu­
latory definition which is under your author­
ity. In particular, we understand that the In­
ternal Revenue Service definition of the 
"cost" basis of a capital gain is not defined 
by statute, but by regulation. That defini­
tion could be changed by your authority to 
include the effects of inflation so that such 
inflationary gains would no longer be subject 
to taxation. 
Mr. President, we believe it is critical for 
the recovery of the economy that the decline 
in values of homes, properties, and busi­
nesses throughout the U.S. be stopped. An 
immediate regulatory change to prevent in­
flationary gains on capital from being taxed 
would go far in accomplishing this stability. 
Just as importantly, it would spur job cre­
ation and business growth that is so badly 
needed for both our short term economic 
problems and long term international com­
petitiveness. 
We urge you to immediately make this 
regulatory change and end the taxation of 
inflationary gains on capital assets. 
Sincerely, 
Connie Mack; Mitch McConnell, John 
McCain, Jake Garn, Bob Smith, Al 
D' Amato, Dan Coats, Don Nickles, 
Steve Symms, Robert Kasten, Conrad 
Burns, Larry E. Craig, Bob Dole, Mal­
colm Wallop, Jesse Helms. 
Mr. BAUCUS addressed the Chair. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
Chair recognizes the Senator from 
Montana. 
Mr. BAUCUS. I thank the Chair. 

--- PDF PAGE 42 ---
4532 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
BUILDING A COMPETITIVE U.S. 
AUTO INDUSTRY 
Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, a Gen­
eral Motors CEO once said that 
"what's good for GM is good for Amer­
ica." If what is bad for GM is bad for 
America, our country is in tough 
shape. 
Because last week, General Motors 
announced the closing of 12 factories, 
the first step of a plan that will leave 
74,000 American auto workers unem­
ployed. It is estimated that GM's 1991 
North American auto operations lost $1 
million an hour. Ford and Chrysler also 
suffered record losses. 
The American automobile industry is 
emblematic of a broader crisis in our 
Nation: In sector after sector, we are 
losing our competitive edge. As a con­
sequence, in many cases, affected in­
dustries have sought protection to re­
gain lost market share. 
But traditional protection, the kind 
that we ordinarily have enacted in the 
past, has a poor track record. For the 
most part, protection only raised the 
prices paid by consumers. When it ex­
pired, the industries were no more 
competitive and they only demanded 
more protection at consumer expense. 
THE HARLEY DAVIDSON EXPERIENCE 
I think there is a better way. And the 
experience of the motorcycle manufac­
turer, Harley Davidson, proves import 
relief properly framed can promote 
competitiveness. Harley's motorcycles 
had been famous worldwide. By the 
1970's, the company had learned how to 
make a lot of bikes, but had forgotten 
how to make them the best. 
Harley took two major steps to re­
verse its misfortunes. First, it sought 
import protection, and second, it fo­
cused on quality control and employee 
training. 
Harley got import relief in the form 
of higher tariffs. It used the breathing 
room to overhaul its operation. In the 
end, Harley Davidson actually ended up 
urging the Government to end import 
protection ahead of schedule. 
The Harley example demonstrates 
that we can turn necessity into virtue 
by requirmg competitive improve­
ments in return for import relief. In 
fact, given Federal budget constraints, 
conditioned import relief is one of the 
few tools the U.S. Government can use 
to promote competitiveness. 
THE AUTO EXAMPLE 
The American industry that is now 
most actively seeking protection is the 
auto industry. Hit by the double wham­
my of the recession and Japanese com­
petition, Detroit is reeling. 
The auto industry is an important 
part of our economy. According to re­
cent estimates, the auto industry is re­
sponsible for 4.5 percent of U.S. GNP 
and more than 2 million American jobs. 
The impact of the auto industry 
stretches beyond Detroit. The Amer­
ican auto industry supports ranging 
from electronics to steel. 
But, as we all know, the auto indus­
try has been experiencing competitive 
problems. The Japanese share of the 
United States auto market has steadily 
risen since the 1960's. And-although 
they have succeeded in selling cars in 
Europe and around the world-the Big 
Three have not been able to crack the 
Japanese market in return. 
Part of the fault lies with the Big 
Three. But even when we have products 
Japanese consumers want to buy, an 
array of Japanese nontariff barriers 
has kept United States automakers 
from making the sale. 
The American auto industry is cer­
tainly not a basket case. And, it is be­
ginning to show some muscle. Perhaps, 
with a few years of import protection, 
the Big Three could once again set the 
standard for the world to meet and 
save millions of American jobs in the 
process. 
A NEW PLAN FOR AUTOS 
Toward that end, I have unveiled a 
plan-which I intend to introduce as 
legislation-to improve · the competi­
tiveness of the American auto indus­
try. The proposal is built around the 
simple concept of limited import relief 
in return for a quid pro quo-for a com­
mitment to build a more competitive 
car. 
First, my proposal establishes a 
standstill on Japan's current United 
States sales level. It would limit Ja­
pan's share of the United States vehi­
cle market to the current level of im­
ports from Japan, approximately 2 mil­
lion units, plus the current level of 
Japanese transplant production. That 
means roughly 3.6 million uni ts annu­
ally. Transplant autos with 70 percent 
or greater local content will not be 
counted against the limit. 
These limits would be reviewed every 
2 years and would be in place for no 
more than 7 years. These years are to 
be a chance to catch up with the com­
petition, and not some loophole for 
continued business as usual. I will de­
mand that the auto industry dem­
onstrate during this period continued 
increases in production efficiency, 
product quality, and consumer serv­
ice-the criteria set by the Commerce 
Department for awarding the Malcolm 
Baldrige National Quality Award. 
Every 2 years, the International 
Trade Commi&sion will evaluate the 
auto industry against these standards. 
If quality is not steadily increasing, 
the protection will be terminated. 
But the focus will be on results, not 
on micromanaging the auto industry. 
The Big Three themselves will make 
the specific investment decisions. 
Further, if the Big Three want tem­
porary import relief, they will have to 
scale executive compensation to a level 
more in line with industrial reality 
than with major league baseball play­
ers. Auto executives cannot expect to 
collect obscene salaries while they lay 
off U.S. autoworkers. 
CONCLUSION 
No one should doubt the talent or te­
nacity of the United States. Thirty 
years ago, JOHN GLENN, one of our 
Members, became the first American to 
orbit the Earth. And less than a decade 
later, it was an American astronaut, 
not a Soviet cosmonaut, who took the 
first walk on the Moon. America won 
the technology race. 
We can bring the determination we 
brought to the space race to the chal­
lenge of building a competitive econ­
omy. 
We do not have to beat our chests or 
raise our voices. We just have to do the 
job, and do it better than we ever have 
before. And we have to do it right now. 
And if U.S. industries come looking 
for a free ride at consumers' expense, I 
will stand in their way. We cannot af­
ford any more free rides for the auto 
industry, the steel industry, or anyone 
else. 
From now on, the price for Govern­
ment protection has to be building a 
more competitive industry. Working 
together, Government and industry can 
build a more competitive America. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
Chair recognizes the Senator from Mas­
sachusetts [Mr. KERRY]. 
OMNIBUS CRIME CONTROL ACT­
CONFERENCE 
The Senate continued with the con­
sideration of the conference report. 
Mr. KERRY. Mr. President, I rise to 
speak on the crime bill, and on the sit­
uation that we currently find ourselves 
in. 
I find it somewhat extraordinary, Mr. 
President, that at a time when the 
American people have registered such 
clear and convincing dissatisfaction 
with the American political process 
and with the lack of leadership, at a 
time when in primary after primary 
they are registering dissatisfaction 
with the lack of leadership, and when 
uncommitted seems to win a signifi­
cant portion of votes that here we are 
in the U.S. Senate, a year or more after 
a significant crime bill was passed, and 
what the American people are watch­
ing is the most fundamental, crass, 
craven, hollow, shallow process of poli­
tics being played out on the floor of the 
Senate. 
You even pick up the New York 
Times, or pick up the Washington Post, 
and you see a very simple explanation 
of what is happening here. One side is 
trying to gain advantage over the 
other in proving to the American peo­
ple who is tough on crime. Are we not 
just terrific? 
Meanwhile, yet another American 
will wind up getting shot in his or her 
home, or walking down the street, or 
we will pick up the papers and read 
about another Capitol Hill employee. 
That finally brings crime home to peo­
ple on Capitol Hill-never mind the 

--- PDF PAGE 43 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4533 
fact that countless Americans are feel­
ing it every day-when one of our own 
gets shot. Then the hue and cry goes 
up. 
But more of those crimes will take 
place while the U.S. Senate watches a 
Republican minority try to create an 
impasse in legislation because they do 
not like one provision of a bill that was 
tougher than the bill that their Presi­
dent submitted to the U.S. Senate. I 
think it is a disgrace. They ought to be 
ashamed of themselves. 
Last year the U.S. Senate rejected 
the President's crime bill by a 56-to-40 
vote. And then Senate Democrats uni­
formly supported the conference bill 
that happens to be tougher on crime 
than the bill that the President had, 
and more balanced with respect to con­
stitutional rights. 
Now the Republicans come back, and 
really what they want is not nec­
essarily to get a crime bill passed, but 
what they want is those 30-second ad­
vertisements. They want the capacity 
to try to disadvantage somebody in the 
U.S. Senate while, in reality, it is the 
American people who are disadvan­
taged because of the lack of response 
on the issue of crime. 
I sat with a lot of other people on 
that cold January day 3 years ago when 
the President of the United States was 
inaugurated. I listened as our new 
President characterized drugs as a 
scourge. And he promised the Amer­
ican people that it would stop. That 
was a very dramatic moment and we 
were all filled with a great deal of hope 
at that period of time. 
Not only has the scourge not stopped, 
Mr. President, but the American peo­
ple's patience is being tried. 
Drug use continues virtually 
unabated in the United States today. 
Moreover, violent crime-which is a 
sinister byproduct of drug activity and 
drug sales-continues to ravage our 
neighborhoods and our schools and our 
communities. The American people le­
gitimately want to know what are you 
doing about that? Filibustering crime 
bills? Jockeying with each other for 
political advantage while kids are 
dying in the schools of America? 
I think the American people have 
been more than patient enough. They 
have understood this war is not going 
to be won overnight. But they also 
have been promised results, and very 
few results have been delivered. The 
American people have been told, again 
and again, there is light at the end of 
the tunnel. But so far about the only 
thing that they have been able to see is 
a Government that is groping around 
blindly, apparently directionless. 
The problem ultimately for all of us 
becomes one of credibility. We keep de­
claring war, and we keep raising the 
expectations. But then we fail to pro­
vide the resources that are necessary. 
In the war on drugs we have been told 
over the course of the last year that we 
are making progress because middle­
class suburban-and I might add large­
ly white-high school seniors do not 
use drugs to the extent that they did 5 
years ago. But the fact is that you can 
go to any inner city in the United 
States of America and find out to what 
degree drugs have increased, and to 
what degree the drug-related violence 
among the kids in those cities have in­
creased. 
Go to a crack neighborhood just 
around the corner in Washington, New 
York, or Boston, and then try to tell 
people about the positive direction in 
which we are heading. 
I think the last thing in the world we 
need is the kind of empty political 
symbolism that is being carried out 
here at this point in time. We, obvi­
ously, do not need a lot of talk about 
who is toughest on crime. We need 
leaders who are willing to make tough 
choices on how to tackle crime. 
I heard my colleagues on the other 
side of the aisle argue that we have 
doubled the budget for drugs since 
George Bush became President. That is 
true. They have doubled the budget on 
drugs. But that does not answer the 
question of whether or not they have 
funded the drug war to the degree that 
we need to, to be able to legitimately 
call it a war. And it also does not take 
into account where we were when we 
started the doubling. 
Where we were when we started the 
doubling coming out of the impact of 
President Reagan, who had declared 
war on drugs in 1983 and then proceeded 
to cut every single program that might 
have helped a drug war to have been 
fought. I am not just talking about so­
cial programs. President Reagan con­
sistently zeroed the budget for State 
and local assistance, all of which was 
critical to law enforcement. I think it 
is a matter of record, uncontested, that 
his drug strategy was a disaster. 
Despite the opposition of the Presi­
dent, Congress passed drug bills in 1986 
and in 1988. In those drug bills we in­
creased the funding for drug-related 
programs, but we were not able to fully 
fund the 1988 drug bill until the sum­
mer of 1989. 
And it took literally the threat of 
this Senator's amendment to take 
funds out of star wars account and put 
it into the drug wars account to finally 
get a commitment that we were going 
to fully fund the drug war. It was then 
that the Senator from West Virginia 
[Mr. BYRD] made the commitment that 
he would find the money and, indeed, 
he delivered. But because of the opposi­
tion of the administration, a full fund­
ing of the drug war never, in fact, took 
place. 
So when President Bush says, "Look, 
I doubled the drug war," what he is 
really saying is I have begun to catch 
up for the devastation that was 
wreaked when I was Vice President and 
in fact when I was in charge of the drug 
war, which is what he originally was 
when Reagan gave him that assign­
ment in 1982. 
As a member of the Byrd task force 
that carried on the negotiation with 
our Republican counterparts, I well re­
member how we had to fight tooth and 
nail with the administration to get any 
money to fund drugs, let alone the ap­
propriate amount. 
We would suggest more money for 
treatment or education or for State 
and local assistance and the Repub­
licans would say, "Wait a minute, we 
have to check with the White House." 
They would check with the White 
House, they would come back and say, 
"The President does not want to spend 
the money." 
So the President was happy to de­
clare war. The President was happy to 
go through the great process of telling 
America how he stood for law and 
order, but he was never willing to put 
in place the kind of resources nec­
essary to really fight a drug war. 
Here we are in 1992. I think we have 
had something like six declarations of 
war on drugs. The Republicans-none 
of them here on the floor right now­
want to say that they are tougher on 
crime. But the fact is that in 1992, only 
half the kids in the United States of 
America are getting education about 
drugs. What does that say to the other 
half of the kids who do not get the edu­
cation? That we do not care about 
them? That they are not important? 
That they do not have the same future 
as the other 50 percent? That the war is 
only for 50 percent of American kids 
and not for the others? Or is it only for 
the 50 percent that represent a certain 
cons ti tu ency? And so the inner cities 
are even more hurt today than they 
ever were before. 
What about treatment? How do you 
make a serious statement about a drug 
war if more than 50 percent of the peo­
ple who are addicts cannot even get 
treatment? 
This was something that we were ar­
guing on the floor of the U.S. Senate in 
1986, 1987, 1988, 1990, 1991, and now it is 
1992 and we are having a filibuster of a 
crime fighting bill that has $1 billion of 
local law enforcement aid in it, and it 
is the cops on the front line who get 
hurt, and it is the kids on the front line 
who get shot, and it is the drug addicts 
on the front line who die, who suffer 
because of the politics that are being 
played here now. 
What kind of commitment is that to 
the drug war? It is a rhetorical com­
mitment, Mr. President, the same rhe­
torical commitment that it has been 
the entire time. 
Just last week we had a photo oppor­
tunity drug war. We had an effort by 
the President who did a repeat of his 
car salesman trip to Japan, only this 
time it was the drug salesman trip to 
San Antonio. President Fujimori ar­
rived and he surprised the President 

--- PDF PAGE 44 ---
4534 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
because he called the administration's 
antidrug strategy in Latin America a 
failure, and he said that millions of 
dollars have been wasted and there 
have not been many results. 
During the course of that failed sum­
mit, President Bush's approach to get­
ting drugs off our streets remained in 
fundamental disagreement with the 
Presidents of Colombia and Bolivia and 
instead of using our resources to stop 
the demand of drugs at home, Presi­
dent Bush seeks to instead throw them 
away on foreign militaries that do not 
need the money and who cannot see it 
very effectively. 
Mr. President, I think that part of 
our engagement, unfortunately, speaks 
for itself. But once again, they try to 
mislead the American people. They say 
how much progress there has been in 
casual drug use. But the problem is 
that in this past year, the statistics 
show that that even has started to re­
verse itself because cocaine is now up 
in every category of use for the first 
part of this year and for the first time 
since 1985. 
The fact is that while the drug war 
generals were meeting in San Antonio, 
those on the front lines have been en­
gaged in a nonstop firefight in our 
streets and in our schools, and the fact 
is that despite hundreds of millions of 
dollars we are pouring into the Andean 
drug strategy, coca leaf production is 
not down, it is up, cocaine manufactur­
ing is up, cocaine traffickers have es­
tablished new bases of operations 
throughout our hemisphere and co­
caine remains widely available on our 
streets. The price of cocaine is coming 
down and the purity of cocaine is going 
up. 
None of us quarrel with the goals of 
the Andean strategy because inter­
national cooperation in a legitimate 
drug war is certainly essential. Sharing 
intelligence, going after money-laun­
dering operations is vital, but we are 
not doing enough of that. Targeting 
drug kingpins and seizing drug ·ship­
ments are important. But you can seize 
all the drug shipments you want in the 
world, you can brag all you want about 
the number of tons of drugs that you 
have intercepted. The fact remains 
that if the same amount of drugs gets 
into the United States on demand, it 
really does not matter how much you 
interdict, and that is precisely where 
we are today. 
The measurement of success is 
whether or not cocaine use is down, 
whether cocaine coming into the Unit­
ed States is down, and the answer is to 
both of those questions, no, it is not. 
I personally believe that many of 
those hundreds of millions of dollars 
that are going to the militaries of 
countries which cannot use them cor­
rectly would be far better used in the 
streets of Boston or New York or Wash­
ington for more police or in order to 
give people the treatment they need 
and deserve with respect to drug edu­
cation and drug treatment itself. 
Mr. President, I do not think any­
thing underscores more the hypocrisy 
of the situation we find ourselves in 
than this argument about habeas cor­
pus and this extraordinary proffering 
of a so-called Republican crime bill. 
Last year, Mr. President, we had two 
crime bills-the Bush crime bill and 
the conference report that is before us. 
The conference report crime bill sug­
gests a 5-day waiting period before peo­
ple get people-killing weapons to hold 
in their hands-the Brady bill. That is 
5 days to find out if you are crazy, 5 
days to find out if you have had a 
record in jail, not exactly an intrusion 
on the Constitution, considering the 
fact that we do . not allow people to 
have nuclear weapons in their back 
yards, we do not allow them to buy M­
l tanks, we do not allow them to have 
howitzers. So why should . we not make 
a judgment about whether or not peo­
ple have other killing instruments in 
their hands? Five days, that is all we 
ask. But that mighty Bush bill had no 
provision at all, nothing, because they 
cave in to the gun lobby. 
On the death penalty, why that tough 
Bush bill had 43 or 46 different flavors 
of death penalty. Democrats outdoing 
the flavors came up with 53 crimes for 
which people could be put to death, in­
cluding gun murders. 
There was no provision at all for gun 
murders in the Bush bill. There is in 
the conference report before us. Drive­
by shootings, there was no provision at 
all in the mighty Bush bill, but there is 
in the conference report. 
Rape and murder, no provision at all 
in the Bush bill, but there is in the 
conference report. 
What about for law enforcement, the 
front lines of law enforcement? The 
conference report that the Democrats 
have worked out with the House has $1 
billion in aid to State and local law en­
forcement agencies. 
How much money was the Bush bill 
willing to put in front of the law en­
forcement community to help them in 
the assistance? Zero. Zero aid to local 
communities in the Bush bill. 
How about gun-related penalties? as I 
said, the conference report toughened 
the penalties for gun use during violent 
crime, including the death penalty. 
The mighty Bush bill had no death pen­
alty, and fewer mandatory penalties 
for gun use. 
For rural crime and drugs, there was 
a conference report provision to pro­
vide aid to rural law enforcement for 
drug treatment. No provision at all in 
the Bush bill. 
Drunk driving, the conference report 
boosts penal ties for drunk driving 
when a child is present in the vehicle. 
No provision at all in the Bush bill. 
Police corps, an idea which was put 
together jointly in order to assist in 
getting police into our communities. 
Finally, we break through with an in­
telligent proactive effort to try to deal 
with crime. Nothing is more important 
in this country than restoring order in 
our communities. 
I think it is fair to say that there is 
literally chaos in some communities, 
and it is chaos which is driving people 
away from their communities, from 
having a stake in their communities or 
from even feeling safe. Nothing is more 
important than to get people to rein­
vest themselves into the communities 
of America. 
For a long time in the United States, 
we made it attractive for people to go 
into the military. We said that if you 
join the military and wear a uniform in 
defense of your Nation, we will give 
you the GI bill, we will pay for your 
education, we will give you all kinds of 
benefits. Now we have a different 
threat in America, and the threat is 
right here in our communities and in 
our streets. 
It is a threat that demands we at­
tract the best and the brightest people 
in all cross-sections of our country in 
order to serve in the communities as 
part of law enforcement. Nothing 
would restore a sense of service better 
than that, and nothing would be more 
of an assistance to communities that 
are hard pressed financially, to be able 
to hire people to be in the police forces. 
So we have a police corps in this bill. 
The Bush bill had no such provision, 
and sadly that, too, is languishing now 
while we wait for something to happen. 
For victims of crime, there was no 
provision in the Bush bill; there was in 
the conference. 
For child abuse, there was no 
1 
provi­
sion in the Bush bill; there is in the 
conference. 
For drug prisons, there was no provi­
sion in the Bush bill; there is in the 
conference. 
Boot camps for violent offenders of 
drugs and so forth, in the conference 
bill there is an effort to try to use ex­
cess Federal property to have boot 
camps. How many years has that been 
kicking around? How long does it take 
for us to make that happen? That is 
being held hostage to politics today. 
Here we are with a bill that is tough­
er on crime than what President Bush 
proposed, but President Bush will not 
allow it to go forward because he does 
not like the gun provision in it and be­
cause habeas corpus is somehow a prob­
lem. 
The Senator from Delaware said it 
yesterday. It bears repeating. Habeas 
corpus applies to people who are al­
ready in jail. The bill we passed limits 
their appeals. So the Republicans are 
holding up a crime bill because they 
are worried about how people already 
in jail are being dealt with when the 
bill before us would put people in jail, 
keep them in jail, and assist the police 
in keeping our streets safer and in 
making our communities stronger. 

--- PDF PAGE 45 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4535 
I do not know whether people have 
lost their bearings or lost their sense 
or what, but it is astounding to me 
that those who are blocking a strong, 
tough crime bill from passage believe 
they can gain political advantage by 
pretending that somehow the American 
people are going to be fooled in this 
charade. If there is any lesson of the 
year 1992, it is that the American peo­
ple are not being fooled. It appears as if 
people are fooling themselves here in 
Washington, believing they can con­
tinue business as usual, and not allow 
themselves or the other people here in 
Washington to be held accountable for 
those choices. 
Mr. President, it is clear to me that 
the American people are going to hold 
us accountable and it is precisely this 
kind of soft peddling, craven political 
that has people fed up to the gills and 
ready for change. 
I yield the floor. 
Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. President, here 
we go again, out of chute No. 2. 
I spoke Tuesday evening about what 
effect this conference report would 
have if it were enacted into law. I rise 
again today to thank my colleagues 
from the Judiciary Committee for 
their leadership on this matter. I have 
spoken often about the fairness and 
honor of our chairman, and of my deep 
respect and admiration for our able 
ranking member, STROM THURMOND. 
I also want to commend the leader­
ship shown by Senator HATCH. I trust 
that my colleagues in the Senate were 
listening carefully to what he said on 
the floor yesterday. He went into great 
detail to demonstrate that the com­
bined effect of the major titles of the 
conference report could result in giving 
the most vile and violent criminals the 
opportunity to get a new trial-with 
the resulting possibility of being re­
leased on bail-and ultimately giving 
them the chance to return to the 
streets to repeat their malicious acts 
against society. 
This conference report includes the 
most offensive procriminal rights pro­
visions imaginable. President Bush will 
surely veto this bill-of that, I am 
sure. You see, during this political 
year, the game is to come up with new 
and creative ways to create a false and 
crude impression about the President 
and Republicans, in general. 
I can already imagine the press re­
leases that will be cranked out if we 
approve this conference report-Presi­
dent Bush vetoes crime bill. It is tai­
lor-made for campaign rhetoric. 
It has been interesting to hear what 
the distinguished chairman of the Judi­
ciary Committee has said during this 
debate. He referred to facades and 
straw men and diversions. 
The chairman knows I respect him 
greatly, but I submit that it is this 
conference report that is the facade. 
This legislation uses money as a fa­
cade to demonstrate that we truly are 
doing something. Well, Mr. President, 
this bill certainly does something. I am 
certain, however, that what it does is 
far from what the American people 
have been promised. 
And, I would also observe that the 
proponents of the conference commit­
tee report deftly use their own straw 
man. For them, the straw man is guns, 
gun control, and the NRA. 
Well, we see every day how well the 
toughest gun control laws in the coun­
try work in the District of Columbia. 
Some of our colleagues unfortunately 
know how poorly those types of laws 
work from their own painful, personal 
experience. 
Gun control is the straw man here, 
Mr. President. 
This conference report is the facade 
behind which the Bush bashers are hid­
ing and hoping. They are hoping and 
praying that the Senate passes this bill 
because they know that President Bush 
will do what is best for the law-abiding 
citizens of this country and that he 
will veto this bill. Then they will turn 
the rhetoric up by painting the Presi­
dent as failing to act against street 
crime. 
I trust that such activity will not be 
necessary; and I trust that my col­
leagues on both sides of the aisle will 
accept their responsibility to do what 
is best for the people and vote against 
this flawed committee report. Throw it 
in the dust bin where it belongs, and 
then let's get to work on real, tough 
criminal law reform. 
Mr. SANFORD. Mr. President, I rise 
to speak today to urge the Senate to 
support and agree to the conference re­
port on H.R. 3371, the Violent Crime 
Control and Law Enforcement Act of 
1991. This conference report has been 
sitting at the desk for over 3 months, 
waiting for us to act. And I just wish to 
associate myself with the comments 
made yesterday by the Judiciary Com­
mittee chairman pointing out the toll 
taken by the public because of our re­
fusal to act; 6,000 murders in 94 days, 
1.2 million felonies. What is it that we 
are waiting for? 
Opponents of this very tough, very 
responsible conference report have said 
that the conference report is soft on 
crime. Ridiculous. 
The conference report puts more cops 
on the beat, more prosecutors in our 
courts, and more prisoners behind bars. 
One thing is clear, Mr. President. Our 
efforts on the Federal level are insig­
nificant if they do not convey to the 
American people that the battle is one 
that overwhelmingly must be waged 
and won in the communities and in the 
neighborhoods of our States. Ninety­
five percent of all criminal cases are 
prosecuted in State courts. It is the 
State criminal justice systems, the 
State prosecutors, the State police, the 
State judges, and the State prisons 
that bear the greatest burden. 
The local law enforcement commu­
nity must be aided in their response to 
violent crime. They are increasingly 
understaffed, ill-equipped, and out­
gunned. Recognizing the importance of 
supporting those who are on the front 
lines of our war on crime, this con­
ference bill authorizes $3 billion for 
local and State law enforcement agen­
cies. This commitment can hardly be 
described as soft on crime. 
Furthermore, I fail to see how enact­
ing the Brady bill, which the Repub­
lican alternative surprisingly over­
looks, is soft on crime. Our distin­
guished majority leader has done much 
to ensure that the Brady bill is enacted 
into law. He drafted the compromise 
which is included in the conference re­
port. This approach combines a waiting 
period with a mandatory background 
check and authorizes $40 million to 
help States update and computerize 
criminal records. 
Let us be perfectly clear about what 
the Brady bill does. It simply imposes 
a 5-day waiting period for the purchase 
of handguns until a national instant 
check system is developed. It also re­
quires police background checks of gun 
purchasers in order to keep guns out of 
the hands of criminals. This is not a 
radical idea; President Reagan is sup­
portive. Our local police officers sup­
port it. 
My home State of North Carolina has 
long had a similar provision on the 
books and it has been readily accepted 
by our citizens. Without unduly inter­
fering with anyone's right to own fire­
arms, North Carolina's permit system 
has provided a check against handgun 
purchases by felons, drug abusers, men­
tal incompetents, and those seeking in 
quick anger to win an argument. It has 
not put to disadvantage any law-abid­
ing citizens, gun dealers, hunters, or 
NRA members. The Brady bill is a ra­
tional and responsible pol~cy that will 
keep guns out of the wrong hands. Law 
enforcement officers in my State have 
told me time and time again that pas­
sage of the Brady bill is vital if we are 
to address crime in any significant 
way. Supporting our local law enforce­
ment officers, who face danger on a 
daily basis, is not being soft on crime. 
I would also point out that the pro­
tections afforded citizens under the 
writ of habeas corpus and the exclu­
sionary rule are too precious and too 
important in our society to be cast out 
under some ill-conceived notion that 
this streamlining effort will reduce 
crime. Last November, an editorial in 
the New York Times noted: 
* * * Senate Republicans and the White 
House say they are determined to block en­
actment because the conference refused to 
accept even stronger > limits on habeas cor­
pus appeals and looser restraints on exclu­
sion of illegally seized evidence. Neither pro­
vision has much to do with > the level of 
crime on the streets. * * * 
My final point is that we must begin 
to make efforts to address the root 
causes of crime. Reliance on law en­
forcement solutions is not enough, and 

--- PDF PAGE 46 ---
4536 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
that is the clear record of the last 
dozen years. Charles Dunn, director of 
the North Carolina State Bureau of In­
vestigation, recently wrote an article 
for the Charlotte Observer on the most 
appropriate methods to address the 
crime epidemic. I ask unanimous con­
sent to include Mr. Dunn's article at 
the end of my remarks. 
The theme of the article is that un­
derlying the entire issue of crime in 
America are the broader subtexts of 
our society. I wholeheartedly agree. 
Improving the opportunity to thrive 
and to succeed, improving the oppor­
tnni ty to be educated, improving the 
opportunity to be free from hunger and 
from want, to have a home and to be 
secure. These must be the cornerstones 
for our war on crime. This is where the 
battle must be waged and won. These 
are the toughest problems to tackle 
but tackle them we must if we are to 
honestly say to the voters back home 
that we are tough on crime. Let us 
work to end the hopelessness, the in­
justice, the poverty, and the destruc­
tion that generate violence. 
I am pleased that the conference re­
port includes an amendment I offered 
to require the Commission on Crime 
and Violence to include as an integral 
part of its study an examination of the 
basic causes and elements that contrib­
ute to crime. It further requests rec­
ommendations for specific proposals 
for both legislative and administrative 
actions to reduce crime and the ele­
ments that contribute to it. This is an 
important step in addressing the root 
causes of crime. 
Ending the epidemic of violence and 
crime that is gripping our country will 
take efforts on many fronts. A com­
preh~nsive attack must use a wide va­
riety of tools and approaches. The con­
ference report before us is a well-rea­
soned starting point for that response, 
and most assuredly is not soft on 
crime. It is, instead, supportive of our 
local law enforcement officers. It is 
time to take action and pass this tough 
and responsible conference report. 
Thank you, and I yield the floor. 
There being no objection, the article 
was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 
[From the Charlotte Observer, Feb. 5, 1992] 
ADDRESSING CAUSES OF CRIME 
(By Charles Dunn) 
North Carolina is in a major and growing 
crime crisis that threatens the personal safe­
ty and security of property of every citizen. 
No one is immune . Babies are being born 
addicted to crack. People are being shot in 
the streets, the elderly are being robbed and 
beaten in their own homes. 
In many counties there are areas where 
law enforcement cannot protect citizens 
from illegal drugs, from violence and from 
the loss of property. Drive-by shootings, 
gang activities and fear are becoming a way 
of life for many. 
The trend is not encouraging. In 1980 North 
Carolina ranked 40th in the nation in index 
crimes per 100,000 people. In 1990 North Caro-
lina ranked 20th. If the trends continue. 
North Carolina will be one of the 10 most 
dangerous states by the turn of the century. 
This situation will not "just go away" by 
passing more laws and building more prisons, 
although they are needed. 
While illegal drugs and guns and, now, 
gangs have made a bad situation worse, the 
roots of the crime problem lie in our inabil­
ity or unwillingness to address human needs, 
particularly those of our children. 
HELP FOR FAMILIES 
A primary cause is dysfunctional families 
and a lack of resources in most communities 
t.o deal effectively with them . 
A disproportionate number of problems 
come from single-parent families, from fami­
lies where both parents work full time or 
more, from families where there is alcohol 
and/or drug abuse, from families where there 
is child and/or spouse abuse. North Carolina 
ranks high in all these areas but provides in­
adequate support or assistance. 
A second cause is lack of intervention and 
treatment programs for the mentally ill and 
the substance abusers. 
Deinstitutionalization was a good concept. 
Unfortunately, community and family sup­
port programs did not come into being, and 
many of the mentally ill became street peo­
ple. 
The same plight has affected alcoholics 
and drug addicts. Too often they can't get 
help and treatment, and they end up in the 
street-and then in trouble with the law. 
In most counties today, the jail is the larg­
est mental health facility. But it offers no 
special care and treatment for the mentally 
ill or substance abusers . If these people could 
be diverted to treatment facilities, they 
would have hope of being helped, and jails 
and prisons would have space for criminals. 
Schools also are a cause. Many young peo­
ple end their academic careers under-edu­
cated and unqualified for available jobs. Cer­
tainly, there is less hope of finding . honest 
work without at least a high school edu­
cation. 
Coupled with the lack of education is the 
lack of jobs for young people in rural and 
urban areas. Too often these unemployed or 
underemployed people become victims of 
crime and get messed up with alcohol and/or 
illegal drugs. 
Couple all these causes with the ready 
availability of guns of all shapes and sizes. 
Violence is becoming a way of life for many. 
AN OVERBURDENED SYSTEM 
A final reason for the increase in crime. 
Resources for the criminal justice system 
have not increased in proportion to popu­
lation growth, crime increase or even to 
keep up with all the new .anti-crime and 
anti-drug legislation. 
While arrests continue to increase at about 
the same rate as crime, law enforcement in 
North Carolina is generally understaffed by 
national standards, particularly in some 
rural areas . 
The same holds true for the courts. Dis­
trict attorneys do not have enough assist­
ance, and there are too few judges. Recent 
figures show we are trying fewer than three 
of every 100 felony cases. That doesn 't deter 
much crime. 
The corrections system is overloaded . Pa­
role and probation officers are carrying im­
possible caseloads. They can't call, much 
less meet, all the people they are to super­
vise . Prisons are filled. 
All this translates into criminals being re­
leased well before finishing their sentences. 
Once released, too many get back into crime. 
Not enough resources are being provided 
for the criminal justice system to meet to­
day's demands. If our neighborhoods and 
homes are to be safe and secure, then federal, 
state and local governments must find re­
sources to provide adequately for law en­
forcement, courts, and corrections. 
But providing for criminal justice alone is 
not enough. More must be done to keep peo­
ple out of crime. Hope and opportunity for 
every citizen are the keys to personal safety 
and security of property in North Carolina. 
I suggest the absence of a quorum. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 
The legislative clerk proceeded to 
call the roll. 
Mr. CONRAD. Madam President, I 
ask unanimous consent that the order 
for the quorum call be rescinded. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms. MI­
KULSKI). Without objection, it is so or­
dered. 
UNFAIR TRADE NEGOTIATIONS 
Mr. CONRAD. Madam President, . I 
rise today to talk about an action by 
the National Farmers Union, which has 
called for the resignation of the Sec­
retary of Agriculture, Secretary Mad­
igan. 
The National Farmers Union has 
asked for the Secretary's resignation 
because he has endorsed the so-called 
Dunkel text as the basis for agreement 
in the Uruguay GATT round now being 
negotiated in Europe. The Dunkel text 
at GATT, the General Agreement on 
Tariffs and Trade, will determine the 
future of American agriculture for the 
next 5 or 10 years. 
Madam President, the reason the Na­
tional Farmers Union is so upset with 
the Secretary is because he has now en­
dorsed in principle the Dunkel text, 
which puts American agriculture at a 
significant disadvantage. 
Madam President, we have heard 
over and over and over that we ought 
to support free trade. The administra­
tion chants it like · a mantra, as though 
those words, those supposedly magic 
words-free trade-will alter the land­
scape and somehow bring back to 
health the heartland of this country 
that is so badly hurting after a dozen 
years of neglect. 
Madam President, the reason the Na­
tional Farmers Union is so concerned 
about an indication by the Secretary of 
Agriculture that he will support the so­
called Dunkel text is because of what 
that text means, because of what is in­
cluded in the words of the text. When I 
was taught about free trade, I was told 
that free trade meant that whoever 
was the most efficient , the most pro­
ductive, would be the one that got the 
business. That is what free trade is all 
about. 
Is that what is being talked about in 
the GATT negotiations? Oh, no. We are 
not talking anymore about who is the 
most efficient, who is the most produc­
tive. We are talking about something 

--- PDF PAGE 47 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4537 
much, much different than that. We 
are talking about negotiated trade, ne­
gotiated trade, and this administration 
is losing the negotiation. 
Madam President, let met just review 
where we are in this negotiation, where 
we started and where we are ending up. 
This chart shows what commodity 
support levels are for various commod­
ities in the United States and in the 
European Community. The dark bars 
are the support levels in the European 
Community. The hatched bars are the 
support levels in the United States. A 
very interesting picture emerges. 
In every one of the commodities, Eu­
rope has much higher levels of support 
for their farmers than we have for ours. 
For example, in refined sugar, they 
support their farmers at $30 a hundred­
weight; our farmers are supported at 
$21 a hundredweight. In sunflowers, Eu­
ropean farmers are supported at $28 a 
hundredweight; our farmers are sup­
ported at $8.80 a hundredweight, a $20 
difference. In soybeans, the European 
farmer gets $15 a bushel, an American 
farmer less than $5. On durum wheat, 
the European farmer gets $9.50 a bush­
el, the American farmer, $4. And on 
corn, the European farmer gets $5.20, 
an American farmer gets $2. 75. 
Madam President, what is happening 
in the GATT round? Is our side seeking 
to level the playing field? Are we try­
ing to close the gap between what a 
European farmer gets and an American 
farmer? That would make sense. That 
would be fair, but that is not what is 
happening. 
Hard to believe? Yes; but our Sec­
retary of Agriculture has signed off in 
principle on a deal that would take 
equal percentage reductions from these 
unequal bases. 
What is the result? Very simply if 
you take an equal percentage reduction 
from an unequal base, you lock in the 
inequality, you lock in the Europe ad­
vantage, you give those European 
farmers twice as much, in some cases 
three times as much as an American 
farmer will get for exactly the same 
commodity. Is there any wonder that 
American farmers are upset? Is the any 
wonder that they feel this administra­
tion has sold them out? 
Madam President, here are the re­
sults of this disastrous deal. The re­
sults will be that the European farmer, 
on sunflowers, will get $22 or $23 a hun­
dredweight, an American farmer will 
get less than $8; a European farmer, $12 
a bushel on soybeans, the American 
farmer less than 5; the European farm­
er will get over $8 a bushel for durum 
wheat, an American farmer, $3.50; and 
on corn, the European farmer will get 
$4.70, a bushel, the American farmer, 
$2.70. 
That is not free trade. It is certainly 
not fair trade. It is negotiated trade 
and this administration is losing the 
negotiation. 
Is there any wonder that American 
farmers are upset? Is there any wonder 
that they feel betrayed? Is there any 
wonder they feel that they have been 
sold out? 
This cannot stand. You have heard 
the President say on occasion that this 
or that cannot stand. Well, this cannot 
stand. It is not fair. It is not right. And 
it will hurt the United States. And not 
just the farmers will be hurt. 
Do not, anybody, be misled on that. 
It will not just be the farmers. One in 
five jobs in this country is dependent 
on agriculture and food industry, not 
just the farmer. It is the truck driver 
who moves the produce. It is the rail­
road worker who moves the grain. It is 
the worker that processes that farm 
commodity into a final product. It is 
the people who work in the paper 
plants that package those products. It 
is the worker who is in the plastic 
plant making containers for those 
products. It is the people who are in 
the business of selling and marketing 
those products. It is the people who are 
in the distribution chain. All of them 
are threatened, all of them are threat­
ened by a deal that means Europe is in 
a position to get three times as much 
for every commodity as the American 
farmer will receive. Because, if the 
commodity is grown in Europe that is 
where the jobs are created. 
Madam President, this cannot stand. 
I am disappointed. More than that, I 
am deeply disappointed in the Sec­
retary of Agriculture, this Secretary 
who has been so much better than the 
last Secretary, so much better. And I 
understand he has been presented with 
a fait accompli. I understand that he 
has been presented with a situation in 
which this Trade Representative-this 
Trade Representative, who cares noth­
ing about agriculture, who knows noth­
ing about agriculture-has done over 
and traded agriculture away like so 
many cars in order to achieve a result 
somewhere else. 
I understand that he has been put in 
a corner. That is no excuse, Madam 
President. Because it is not just him 
that has been put in the corner, it is 
very farmer in this country who has 
been put in a corner. 
And our farmers do not have much 
more to give, Madam President. Our 
State university did a study that said 1 
in 3 grain farmers in my State is going 
to go under in the next 5 years unless 
there is a change. Well, this is not the 
change they had in mind to save that 
situation. 
Madam President, what could be 
more clear that this is not fair? When 
a European farmer gets $12 for a bushel 
of soybeans and for that very same 
bushel the American farmer gets $5, it 
is not fair. And we are told that we are 
to accept that, that it is a good deal for 
America, that it is free trade. Non­
sense. It has nothing to do with free 
trade. 
Madam President, I intend to resist 
this deal with everything that is in me. 
I hope that my colleagues will pay at­
tention and will understand what this 
means, not just to the heartland of 
America, not just to the farmers, not 
just to main street of every rural com­
munity in the United States, but to the 
entire economic strength of our Na­
tion. Because that is what is at stake. 
Madam President, I thank the Chair. 
I yield the floor. 
Mr. LEVIN addressed the Chair. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen­
ator from Michigan. 
CEO PAY AND THE SEC 
Mr. LEVIN. Madam President, in 
May of last year and January of this 
year, I chaired hearings on the issue of 
runaway executive pay in corporate 
America. These hearings disclosed ·that 
the pay of chief executive officers in 
U.S. corporations is out of line with 
corporate profits, out of line with other 
American workers, and out of line with 
CEO pay in other countries. They dis­
closed that huge levels of executive 
pay, unmatched by corporate perform­
ance, pose a threat to American com­
petitiveness. And they disclosed that 
the Federal Government is part of the 
problem. 
In June, I introduced a bill to change 
the Federal Government practices con­
tributing to runaway pay. My bill, the 
Corporate Pay Responsibility Act, had 
three main provisions. First, it di­
rected the Federal Government, 
through the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, to stop frustrating stock­
holder efforts to raise executive pay is­
sues at their own corporations. Second, 
it required corporations to provide 
clearer disclosure to stockholders of 
executive pay levels. Third, it directed · 
the SEC to require corporations giving 
executives stock options to include 
that compensation in the company 
books ·as an expense, which does not 
happen today. 
Since my hearing in May, hardly a 
week has gone by without another arti­
cle detailing another example of sky­
high executive pay at a company per­
forming poorly. The public a:hd many 
members of the business community 
want corporate executives, whose com­
panies are losing money or laying off 
workers, to sit in the same boat as 
workers asked to take pay cuts and 
benefit reductions. In short, they want 
executive pay related to corporate per­
formance. 
Following introduction of my bill 
and public hearings, and public expres­
sions of frustration with excessive ex­
ecutive pay, last month Chairman 
Richard Breeden of the Securities and 
Exchange Commission announced a re­
versal in a decades-old policy of the 
SEC. From now on, Madam President, 
the SEC will not help corporations 
block stockholders from circulating 
advisory proposals on how executive 
compensation should be set in their 

--- PDF PAGE 48 ---
4538 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
companies. That is what the first pro­
vision in my bill called for, and I ap­
plaud the Chairman's decision. 
The Chairman also announced the 
SEC's intention to address administra­
tively the other two provisions in my 
bill. He stated that the SEC will soon 
be issuing a rule to require more com­
prehensive and clearer disclosure of ex­
ecutive compensation in company 
proxy statements. Reforms will include 
a single chart listing all forms of pay, 
a dollar value for stock options held by 
executives, and a 3-year salary his­
tory-each of which my bill required. 
The Chairman also directed the SEC's 
chief accountant to review and report 
back to the Commission within 120 
days on the feasibility and advisability 
of including stock option compensation 
in the company books as an expense. 
I have al ways said that the changes 
required in my bill could be done ad­
ministratively, and Chairman Breeden 
could prove me right. But we will not 
know that for another 120 days, at 
least, Madam President. So for those 
who want to know how the SEC an­
nouncement affects my intentions rel­
ative to the corporate pay responsibil­
ity bill, the answer is: It depends upon 
what actions the SEC finally takes. 
This caution is needed, Madam Presi­
dent, because soon after Mr. Breeden 
made his announcement, the Washing­
ton Post reported that some CEO's will 
not be sitting back and allowing the 
SEC to change the system that has 
benefited them. The Post reported on 
February 21 that, "some of the Na­
tion's largest corporations and premier 
law firms" have already launched a 
counterattack to the SEC proposals, 
claiming that criticisms of excessive 
executive pay are exaggerated and that 
stockholders already have all the infor­
mation and tools they need to stop in­
appropriate pay at individual compa­
nies. 
Those claims are wrong. Whether 
measured against corporate profits, the 
cost of living, worker salaries, or the 
salaries of CEO's in other countries, 
the pay of America's CEO's is out of 
line and out of whack. 
CEO pay has skyrocketed past the 
pay of other American workers. Com­
pensation experts indicate that, where 
15 years ago, CEO pay was 35 times the 
pay of average American workers, that 
figure has now climbed to more than 
100 times. No other developed country 
has such a huge pay gap. In Germany, 
CEO pay is 23 times the pay of average 
workers. In Japan, the figure is 17 
times. In America, it is more than 100 
times, which is way out of line with 
the rest of the world. And it has hap­
pened at the same time that corporate 
profits have stagnated or declined. It is 
happening in the middle of this reces­
sion. 
In the past 2 years, the business press 
has printed a flood of articles about 
runaway executive pay in corporate 
America. These articles illustrate the 
depth of concern in the business com­
munity about what is happening. While 
there may be divisions as to how to 
solve our economic, health care, and 
education crises, there appears to be an 
unusual consensus on the issue of CEO 
pay. Most agree there has been unac­
ceptable excess. 
And not only has CEO pay become an 
issue in and of itself, it has also be­
come a symbol of the deepening dis­
comfort we are feeling about the values 
of our society-the fear many of us 
have that the social disruption we are 
experiencing is due in part because the 
rich are indeed getting richer while the 
rest of America is getting nowhere. 
Madam President, as I have said, 
many members of the business commu­
nity agree that it is time to rein in 
runaway executive pay. But there . are 
also some business groups that are 
fighting the reforms. The Business 
Roundtable, the largest organization of 
CEO's in the country, is one of them. 
When I held hearings on CEO pay is­
sues last May and in January, I invited 
them to testify, but both times they 
declined to appear. Now the Business 
Roundtable is criticizing the SEC for 
acting in this area. 
Madam President, my bill and now 
the SEC, want to allow the stockhold­
ers of America's corporations to be a 
watchdog on executive pay practices. 
You heard me right. Until the SEC's 
announcement last month, stockhold­
ers had no right to have their proposals 
on executive pay-the pay of execu­
tives of their own corporations-heard 
at annual meetings. Now that may be 
hard to believe, but it is true. 
In May, when my Subcommittee on 
Oversight of Government Management 
looked at SEC policies on executive 
pay practices in publicly held corpora­
tions, we learned that the SEC was a 
major roadblock in the way of stock­
holders having a say on how CEO pay is 
set in their own corporations. The SEC 
routinely advised corporations that 
they were not required to permit such 
execut~ve compensation proposals to be 
put to a stockholder vote. In every case 
presented to the SEC in 1990 in which a 
corporation did not want to circulate 
such a proposal, the proposals on exec­
utive pay were not considered-and 
they were not considered with SEC ap­
proval. It is hard to believe that in a 
system based on capitalist principles, 
that the owners of a corporation were 
denied even an advisory voice in how 
much of their money would be paid to 
their own corporation's executives. 
In addition, more than 90 percent of 
America's publicly held corporations 
pay their top executives in part with 
stock options. Stock options are an op­
portunity to buy company stock at a 
set price some time in the future. The 
person who owns a stock option will 
actually exercise it-that is buy the 
stock-only when the value of the 
stock exceeds the price in the option. 
That allows the option holder to pay 
for the stock out of the profits of the 
sale and reap an immediate sizable 
gain. Few companies outside of the 
United States use stock options exten­
sively as a form of executive compensa­
tion. 
But in America, stock option grants 
mean, frequently, big money for cor­
porate executives. In some cases, CEO's 
have received what have been called 
megagrants---options to buy literally 
millions of shares of stock. The profits 
can be tremendous for the executive, 
and yet this form of executive pay is 
hidden, for the most part, from the 
view of stockholders and the public. 
Although stock options impose real 
costs on a company, most do not ap­
pear on the company books as an ex­
pense. They are a freebie in that re­
gard, even though they divert capital 
from company coffers, dilute the value 
of shares held by other stockholders 
and often result in huge compensation 
for the recipients. In fact, they are 
even more than a freebie, because at 
the same time the company does not 
have to show them as an expense on its 
books, it is allowed to report them as 
an expense on its tax returns and take 
a tax deduction. And their true cost is 
largely hidden from stockholders. No 
wonder stock options are such a mush­
rooming form of compensation for cor­
porate executives. 
My bill; S. 1198, would require the 
cost of stock option compensation to 
be included in company books as an ex­
pense. Chairman Breeden has asked his 
staff to give him a recommendation for 
SEC action in this area within 120 
days. That is a lot better than the at 
least 2 years estimated by the Finan­
cial Accounting Standards Board at 
our hearing in January. I told them at 
that time that I thought we in Con­
gress weren't going to wait that long. 
Madam President, again, I am 
pleased that Chairman Breeden has 
taken action. He has observed the 
handwriting on the wall on this issue, 
and he has understood the wisdom of 
what it says. I congratulate him for his 
reform efforts. But the reaction of the 
Business Roundtable indicates that we 
have not yet turned the corner on this 
issue. For that reason, I will be watch­
ing closely the debate on the SEC pro­
posals. If the SEC does not take the 
steps promised in its recent announce­
ment and if it does not agree to require 
corporations to report executive stock 
options as an expense in some appro­
priate manner, I will be returning to 
the floor to ask for action on S. 1198, 
the Corporate Pay Responsibility Act. 
But if as hoped, the SEC follows 
through on its proposals, I will happily 
not press my legislation and declare 
victory. 
Madam President, I suggest the ab­
sence of a quorum. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 

--- PDF PAGE 49 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4539 
The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 
Mr. BYRD. Madam President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
JENNINGS . RANDOLPH'S BIRTHDAY 
REACHING THE 90TH MILESTONE 
Mr. BYRD. Madam President, with 
others who have served in this Cham­
ber over the years, I view the U.S. Sen­
ate in part as a large extended family­
a family whose Members, in spite of 
separating distances, are still united to 
us in memory and in shared past expe­
riences. 
In that spirit, then, I know that 
many of our colleagues will want to 
join me in wishing former Senator Jen­
nings Randolph the happiest of birth­
days on this coming Sunday. 
Born in 1902, Senator Randolph will 
be 90 this weekend. 
Senator Randolph and I entered the 
Senate in 1959-I to fill a full term and 
he to serve out the remainder of the 
term of the late Senator Neely from 
West Virginia. 
From 1959 until his retirement in 
1984, Senator Randolph proved himself 
a virtual dynamo, concerned about is­
sues vital to the people of West Vir­
ginia and our entire country. Through 
his energy, his foresight, his congenial­
ity, and his irrepressible spirit, Jen­
nings Randolph made friends of many 
of those Senators still serving today, 
as well as men and women in countless 
numbers across our country. 
Jennings Randolph is a man pos­
sessed of a boundless love for West Vir­
ginia and for our Nation. Both in Gov­
ernment and in his several other fields 
of interest and expression, he has 
seemed constantly to be looking for 
ways to assist other people to achieve 
their own potential, or for avenues by 
which his neighbors might attain a bet­
ter life for themselves. 
If events can foreshadow destinies, 
perhaps Jennings Randolph's destiny 
was outlined at his birth in 1902. 
One of Senator Randolph's father's 
closest friends was the great William 
Jennings Bryan. 
Jennings was fond of recounting the 
anecdote that his father was with 
Bryan shortly after Jennings' birth. 
When told of the arrival of a new 
Randolph male, Bryan asked Mr. Ran­
dolph, "Have you named this boy?" 
"No," the father replied. 
"Then why don't you give him part of 
my name as a good Democrat?" 
So Jennings Randolph received his 
name from the perennial Presidential 
candidate, William Jennings Bryan-a 
name that the younger Randolph never 
tarnished and that he burnished bril­
liantly in his own career. 
Today, Senator Randolph is living in 
St. Louis, MO. I am privileged to talk 
with him by telephone from time to 
time, and I can assure everybody that 
Jennings Randolph is still vitally in­
terested in our country and in the 
causes for which he worked throughout 
a long and productive career. 
I can also assure everybody that a 
grand portion of Jennings Randolph's 
heart still centers in this Senate and 
its activities. Particularly, then, this 
outstanding West Virginian and con­
tinuing colleague of ours will welcome 
the hearty and sincere birthday wishes 
that we extend to him on the occasion 
of his 90th birthday. 
Madam President, I yield the floor 
and suggest the absence of a quorum. I 
withhold that suggestion. 
Mr: THURMOND. Madam President, 
will the Senator yield? 
Mr. BYRD. Yes; I will be glad to. 
Mr. THURMOND. Madam President, I 
just want to associate myself with the 
able remarks of the distinguished 
President pro tempore of the Senate. I 
served with Senator Randolph. I was 
here when he came and I was here when 
he left. He is a man of character, a man 
of integrity, a man of high principle. 
He was a very capable and dedicated 
man, and I certainly enjoyed serving 
with him. 
We miss him in the Senate, and I 
want to say that, in talking with him 
on many occasions, I enjoyed discuss­
ing the time when he served as a teach­
er and a coach. I served in a similar po­
sition earlier in my life. I always 
looked upon him as a Senator and as a 
man whom young boys could well emu­
late. I think he is a good role model for 
them. 
I am very pleased to join the able 
Senator from West Virginia today, the 
President pro tempore of the Senate, in 
his remarks he made about Senator 
Randolph. 
Mr. BYRD. Madam President, I 
thank my distinguished friend from the 
State of South Carolina [Mr. THUR­
MOND] for his kind remarks concerning 
my former colleague, Jennings Ran­
dolph. I am sure Jennings Randolph 
will be pleased to read in the CONGRES­
SIONAL RECORD the words that have 
been spoken by Senator THURMOND and 
he will cherish those words. 
Again, I thank my friend for noting 
the forthcoming birthday of Jennings 
Randolph and for expressing his good 
wishes to Senator Randolph on that oc­
casion. 
Madam President, I yield the floor 
and suggest the absence of a quorum. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
clerk will call the roll. 
The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 
Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. LAU­
TENBERG). Without objection, it is so 
ordered. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen­
ator from Arizona is recognized. 
Mr. McCAIN. I thank the Chair. 
(The remarks of Mr. MCCAIN pertain­
ing to the submission of Senate Resolu­
tion 266 are located in today's RECORD 
under "Submission of Concurrent and 
Senate Resolutions.") 
Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I suggest 
the absence of a quorum. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
WELLSTONE). The clerk will call the 
roll. 
The bill clerk proceeded to call the 
roll. 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the order for 
the quorum call be rescinded. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. 
AKAKA). Without objection, it is so or­
dered. 
CLOTURE MOTION 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I 
send a cloture motion to the desk on 
the conference report accompanying 
H.R. 3371. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo­
ture motion having been presented 
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the 
clerk to read the motion. 
The legislative clerk read as follows: 
CLOTURE MOTION 
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord­
ance with the provisions of Rule XXII of the 
Standing Rules of the Senate, hereby move 
to bring to a close debate on the conference 
report accompanying H.R. 3371, the Omnibus 
Crime Control Act: 
George Mitchell, Terry Sanford, J.R. 
Biden, Daniel P. Moynihan, Joe 
Lieberman, John F. Kerry, Harris 
Wofford, David Pryor, Jim Sasser, Ed­
ward Kennedy, Albert Gore, Charles S. 
Robb, Bill Bradley, Frank R. Lauten­
berg, Paul Sarbanes, Jay Rockefeller. 
MORNING BUSINESS 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that there be ape­
riod for morning business. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO SENATOR 
JENNINGS RANDOLPH 
Mr. ROCKEFELLER. Mr. President, I 
rise today to ask my colleagues to join 
me, not only in wishing a very happy 
90th birthday to an outstanding indi­
vidual and retired Member of this body, 
but in reflecting for just a few mo­
ments on the extraordinary political 
career of Senator Jennings Randolph. 
A career that spanned 14 years in the 
House of Representatives and 26 years 
in the U.S. Senate. 
It began in 1932, when at the age of 
30, Jennings Randolph was elected to 
the House of Representatives in the 
election that carried Franklin Roo­
sevelt to the Presidency in a Demo­
cratic landslide. At that very young 
age, he began immediately addressing 
the problems that affected his con-

--- PDF PAGE 50 ---
4540 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
stituency in his beloved West Virginia, 
while at the same time winning the re­
spect and admiration of his peers. 
From the beginning, he became a 
member of committees through which 
he could improve the living conditions 
of the people of West Virginia, such as 
the House committees dealing with 
labor and roads and the Mines and Min­
ing Committee, in which he chaired the 
Subcommittee on Coal. To highlight 
just a little of his legislative history 
while in the House of Representatives, 
he sponsored the Civil Aeronautics Act 
of 1938, helped to establish the National 
Air Museum, served as counselor for 
the National Aeronautical Association, 
and strongly supported Federal aid to 
airports and air mail pickup. He sup­
ported the merging of the armed serv­
ices under a single Department of De­
fense, the New Deal domestic legisla­
tion and President Truman's European 
aid policies. 
In the Senate, Jennings Randolph 
continued his role as congressional 
leader, serving on such powerful com­
mittees as Environment and Public 
Works, Labor and Human Resources, 
Select Committee on Small Business 
and Veterans' Affairs. He was a mem­
ber of the Senate steel caucus, the Sen­
ate coal caucus, The Senate export 
caucus, the tourism caucus and the 
wood energy caucus. In the Senate, he 
proposed legislation to carry on the 
Federal highways program, supported 
liberalizing veterans' pensions, voted 
against efforts to weaken civil rights 
legislation, supported salary increases 
for Federal workers and medical aid for 
the elderly. He supported an increase 
in the minimum wage, the housing bill, 
extension of unemployment benefits 
and Federal aid to schools. He also was 
a strong advocate for the disabled. 
He sponsored the legislation giving 
18-year-olds the right to vote, is cred­
ited with the passage of the Randolph­
Sheppard Act and the establishment of 
the Peace Academy, and helped to 
draft the National Labor Relations 
Act, and the Clean Air and Clean Water 
Acts. Senator Randolph focused his at­
tention throughout his career on the 
problems of his State, including its 
largest industry, coal mining. In 1972, 
Congress passed a measure sponsored 
by Senator Randolph liberalizing eligi­
bility standards for benefits to miners 
with black lung. And you could always 
count on his fighting for the Appalach­
ian Regional Commission and the Eco­
nomic Development Administration. 
Clearly, the record shows his accom­
plishments are far too numerous to 
mention, just as the awards he received 
over the years would fill several pages. 
Senator Jennings Randolph retired 
from the U.S. Senate in 1985. He is now 
living in Missouri where he moved to 
be close to his family. On Sunday, 
March 8, he will celebrate his 90th 
birthday. 
Mr. President, to be able to celebrate · 
one's 90th birthday is definitely a glori-
ous occasion, as I'm sure all my col­
leagues would agree. The gift of long 
life is indeed that, a gift. But to chart 
the course of one's life so as to enhance 
the lives of others, to dedicate that life 
to public service, vastly improving the 
State and the country you love so 
much, is without a doubt a noble ac­
complishment. 
I once read that Senator Randolph 
has been described as a "skillful speak­
er, with a genial approach, a firm hand­
shake, and a trace of the snake-oil ven­
dor." However he may be described, 
one thing is certain. West Virginia and 
these great United States are bene­
factors of a truly dedicated statesman. 
Happy birthday, good friend. 
APPOINTMENTS BY THE 
MAJORITY LEADER 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The 
Chair has two appointments. 
The Chair, on behalf of the majority 
leader, pursuant to Public Law 102-240, 
appoints the following individuals as 
members of the National Commission 
on Intermodal Transportation: Leon 
Eplan of Georgia, and Wayne Davis of 
Maine. 
The · Chair, on behalf of the majority 
leader, pursuant to Public Law 102-240, 
appoints the following individuals as 
members of the Commission To Pro­
mote Investment in America's Infra­
structure: F. Woodman Jones of Maine, 
and Frank Hanley of Maryland. 
AMENDMENT TO THE FOOD STAMP 
ACT OF 1977 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate 
proceed to the immediate consider­
ation of S. 2324, a bill making a tech­
nical correction of the Food Stamp Act 
to include the blind in the category of 
disabled persons introduced earlier 
today by Senators LEAHY and DOLE; 
that the bill be deemed read three 
times and passed and the motion to re­
consider laid upon the table. Further, 
that any statements relating to this 
measure be printed in the RECORD at an 
appropriate place. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
The bill (S. 2324), deemed to have 
been read three times and passed, is as 
follows: 
s. 2324 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep­
resentatives of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 
SECTION 1. EXCLUSIONS FROM FOOD STAMP IN­
COME. 
(a) IN GENERAL.-Section 5(d)(16) of the 
Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2014(d)(16)) 
(as amended by section 903(3) of the Food, 
Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act 
Amendments of 1991 (Public Law 102-237)) is 
further amended by striking "section 
1612(b)(4)(B)(iv) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1382a(b)(4)(B)(iv))" and inserting "sub­
paragraph (A)(iii) or (B)(iv) of section 
1612(b)(4) of the Social Security Act (42 
U .S.C. 1382a(b)(4))" . 
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.-
(1) IN GENERAL.-The amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall take effect on the earlier 
of-
( A) December 13, 1991; 
(B) October l, 1990, for food stamp house­
holds for which the State agency knew, or 
had notice, that a member of the household 
had a plan for achieving self-support as pro­
vided under section 1612(b)(4)(A)(iii) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1382a(b)(4)(A)(iii)); or 
(C) beginning on the date that a fair hear­
ing was requested under the Food Stamp Act 
of 1977 (7 U.S .C. 2011 et seq.) contesting the 
denial of an exclusion for food stamp pur­
poses for amounts necessary for the fulfill­
ment of such a plan for achieving self-sup­
port. 
(2) LIMITATION ON APPLICATION OF SEC­
TION.-Notwithstanding section ll(b) of the 
Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2020(b)), no 
State agency shall be required to search its 
files for cases to which the amendment made 
by subsection (a) applies, except where the 
excludability of amounts described in sec­
tion 5(d)(16) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 
U.S.C. 2014(d)(16)) was raised with the State 
agency prior to December 13, 1991. 
REREFERRAL OF S. 2282 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Commerce 
Committee be discharged from further 
consideration of S. 2282, a bill to carry 
out a highway project in Alabama, and 
that the bill be referred to the Commit­
tee on Environment and Public Works. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
EWING T. KERR UNITED STATES 
COURTHOUSE 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I ask 
that the Chair lay before the Senate a 
message from the House of Representa­
tives on S. 1889. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be­
fore the Senate the · following message 
from the House of Representatives: 
Resolved, That the bill from the Senate (S. 
1889) entitled "An Act to designate the Unit­
ed States Courthouse located at 111 South 
Wolcott in Casper, Wyoming as the 'Ewing T. 
Kerr United States Courthouse'", do pass 
with the following amendments: 
Strike out all after the enacting clause, 
and insert: 
SECTION 1. FINDINGS. 
The Congress finds that-
(1) Ewing T. Kerr has dedicated 64 years of 
his life to the practice of law in the State of 
Wyoming; 
(2) over a period of 36 years, as a Federal 
district judge, Ewing T. Kerr has embodied 
the spirit of public service and has been dedi­
cated to upholding the law of the land; and 
(3) Ewing T. Kerr deserves recognition, 
honor, and gratitude. 
SEC. 2. DESIGNATION. 
The Federal Building and United States 
Courthouse located at 111 South Wolcott 
Street in Casper, Wyoming, is designated as 
the "Ewing T. Kerr Federal Building and 
United States Courthouse". 
SEC. 3. LEGAL REFERENCES. 
Any reference in any law, regulation, docu­
ment, record, map, or other paper of the 

--- PDF PAGE 51 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4541 
United States to the Federal Building and 
United States Courthouse referred to in sec­
tion 1 is deemed to be a reference to the 
Ewing T. Kerr Federal Building and United 
States Courthouse. 
Amend the title so as to read: "An Act to 
designate the Federal Building and the Unit­
ed States Courthouse located at 111 South 
Wolcott Street in Casper, Wyoming, as the 
'Ewing T. Kerr Federal Building and United 
States Courthouse'.". 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate 
concur in the amendment of the House. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
Mr. MITCHELL. I move to recon­
sider. 
Mr. DOLE. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 
FRANK M. JOHNSON, JR., UNITED 
STATES COURTHOUSE 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I ask 
that the chair lay before the Senate a 
message from the House of Representa­
tives on S. 1467. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be­
fore the Senate the following message 
from the House of Representatives: 
Resolved, That the bill from the Senate (S. 
1467) entitled "An Act to designate the Unit­
ed States Courthouse located at 15 Lee 
Street in Montgomery, Alabama, as the 
'Frank M. Johnson, Jr. United States Court­
house''', do pass with the following amend­
ments: 
Strike out all after the enacting clause and 
insert: 
SECTION 1. DESIGNATION. 
The Federal Building and United States 
Courthouse located at 15 Lee Street in Mont­
gomery, Alabama, shall be known and des­
ignated as the "Frank M. Johnson, Jr. Fed­
eral Building and United States Court­
house''. 
SEC. 2. REFERENCES. 
Any reference in any law, map, regulation, 
document, paper, or other record of the Unit­
ed States to the Federal Building and United 
States Courthouse referred to in section 1 
shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
"Frank M. Johnson, Jr. Federal Building and 
United States Courthouse". 
Amend the title so as to read: "An Act to 
designate the Federal Building and the Unit­
ed States Courthouse located at 15 Lee 
Street in Montgomery, Alabama, as the 
'Frank M. Johnson, Jr. Federal Building and 
United States Courthouse'.". 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Senate 
concur in the amendments of the 
House. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I 
move to reconsider. 
Mr. DOLE. I move to lay that motion 
on the table. 
The motion to lay on the table was 
agreed to. 
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER 
COMMUNICATIONS 
The following communications were 
laid before the Senate, together with 
accompanying papers, reports, and doc­
uments, which were referred as indi­
cated: 
EC-2720. A communication from the Sec­
retary of Agriculture, transmitting a draft of 
proposed legislation to amend the Act of Au­
gust 30, 1890 and the Act of March 4, 1907 to 
eliminate the provisions for permanent an­
nual appropriations to support land grant 
university instruction in the food and agri­
cultural sciences; to the Committee on Ap­
propriations. 
EC-2721. A communication from the Acting 
General Sales Manager, Foreign Agricultural 
Service, transmitting, pursuant to law, a re­
port on modifications of the determination 
of agricultural commodities and quantities 
available for programming under the Agri­
cultural Trade Development and Assistance 
Act of 1954; to the Committee on Agri­
culture, Nutrition and Forestry. 
EC-2722. A communication from the Comp­
troller General of the United States, trans­
mitting, pursuant to law, a report on the Of­
fice of Thrift Supervision's financial state­
ments for the period from October 8, 1989, 
through December 31, 1989; to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs. 
EC-2723. A communication from the Gen­
eral Counsel of the Thrift Depositor Protec­
tion Oversight Board, transmitting, pursu­
ant to law, a report on the determination for 
the appointment of a conservator or receiver 
under the Home Owner's Loan Act; to the 
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban 
Affairs. 
EC-2724. A communication from the Sec­
retary of the Energy, transmitting, pursuant 
to law, the annual report on the Automotive 
Technology Development Program for Fiscal 
Year 1991; to the Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources. 
EC-2725. A communication from the Assist­
ant Secretary of State (Legislative Affairs), 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the annual 
determination of the Secretary of State that 
Israel is not being denied its right to partici­
pate in the activities of the International 
Atomic Energy Agency; to the Committee on 
Foreign Relations. 
EC-2726. A communication from the Chair­
man of the Board of Governors, Federal Re­
serve System, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the annual report covering the implementa­
tion of its administrative responsibilities 
under the Sunshine Act during calendar year 
1991; to the Committee on Governmental Af­
fairs. 
EC-2727. A communication from the Execu­
tive Director of the United States Holocaust 
Memorial Council, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the annual report on internal control 
requirements for fiscal year 1991; to the Com­
mittee on Governmental Affairs. 
EC-2728. A communication from the Chair­
man of the Merit Systems Protection Board, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report de­
scribing the number of appeals submitted to 
Board, the number processed to completion, 
and the number not completed by the origi­
nally announced to date for fiscal year 1991; 
to the Committee on Governmental Affairs. 
EC-2729. A communication from the Chief 
Judge of the United States Tax Court, trans­
mitting, pursuant to law, the actuarial re­
ports on the Tax Court Judges' Retirement 
and Survivor Annuity Plans for the year end­
ing December 31, 1989; to the Committee on 
Governmental Affairs. 
EC-2730. A communication from the Direc­
tor of the Administrative Office of the Unit­
ed States Court, transmitting, a draft of pro­
posed legislation entitled "The Federal 
Courts Improvements Act"; to the Commit­
tee on the Judiciary. 
EC-2731. A communication from the Spe­
cial Counsel of the United States, transmit­
ting, pursuant to law, the annual report of 
the Office of Special Counsel under the Free­
dom of Information Act for calendar year 
1991; to the Committee on the Judiciary. 
EC-2732. A communication from the Man­
aging Director of the Interstate Commerce 
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the annual report of the Commission under 
the Freedom of Information Act for calendar 
year 1991; to the Committee on the Judici­
ary. 
EC-2733. A communication from the Sec­
retary of the Resolution Trust Corporation, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the annual re­
port of the Corporation under the Freedom 
of Information Act for calendar year 1991; to 
the Committee on the Judiciary. 
EC-2734. A communication from the Presi­
dent of the Thrift Depositor Protection Over­
sight Board, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the annual report of the Board under the 
Freedom of Information Act for calendar 
year 1991; to the Committee on the Judici­
ary . 
EC-2735. A communication from the Vice 
President and General Counsel of the Over­
sight Investment Corporation, transmitting, 
pursuant to law, the annual report of the 
Corporation under the Freedom of Informa­
tion Act for calendar year 1991; to the Com­
mittee on the Judiciary. 
EC-2736. A communication from the Chair­
man of the National Endowment for the Hu­
manities, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
annual report of the Endowment under the 
Freedom of Information Act for calendar 
year 1991; to the Committee on the Judici­
ary. 
EC-2737. A communication from the Gen­
eral Counsel of the Federal Emergency Man­
agement Agency, transmitting, pursuant to 
law, the annual report on the Agency under 
the Freedom of Information Act for calendar 
year 1991; to the Committee on the Judici­
ary. 
EC-2738. A communication from the Chair­
man of the National Energy Regulatory 
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the annual report of the Commission under 
the Freedom of Information Act for calendar 
year 1991; to the Committee on the Judici­
ary. 
EC-2739. A communication from the Chair­
man of the Board of Governors, Federal Re­
serve System, transmitting, pursuant to law, 
the annual report of the Board under the 
Freedom of Information Act for calendar 
year 1991; to the Committee on the Judici­
ary. 
EC-2740. A communication from the Chair­
man of the Federal Election Commission, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the annual re­
port of the Commission under the Freedom 
of Information Act for calendar year 1991; to 
the Committee on the Judiciary. 
EC-2741. A communication from the First 
Vice President and Vice Chairman of the Ex­
port-Import Bank of the United States, 
transmitting, pursuant to law, the annual re­
port of the Bank under the Freedom of Infor­
mation Act for calendar year 1991; to the 
Committee on the Judiciary. 
EC-2742. A communication from the Chair­
man of the National Credit Union Adminis­
tration, transmitting, pursuant to law, the 
annual report of the Administration under 
the Freedom of Information Act for calendar 
year 1991; to the Committee on the Judici­
ary. 
EC-2743. A communication from the Comp­
troller General of the United States, trans­
mitting, pursuant to law, a report conveying 

--- PDF PAGE 52 ---
4542 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
the results of the Comptroller's attempt to 
audit the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corpora­
tion's financial statements for the fiscal 
years ended September 30, 1991 and 1990; to 
the Committee on Labor and Human Re­
sources. 
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND 
· JOINT RESOLUTIONS 
The following bills and joint resolu­
tions were introduced, read the first 
and second time by unanimous con­
sent, and referred as indicated: 
By Mr. BENTSEN (for himself and Mr. 
PACKWOOD): 
S. 2318. A bill to amend title XVIII of the 
Social Security Act to make technical cor­
rections relating to the Omnibus Budget 
Reconciliation Act of 1990; to the Committee 
on Finance. 
By Mr. NICKLES (for himself, Mr. 
REID, Mr. COCHRAN, Mr. BURNS, Mr. 
DOLE, Mr. HELMS, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. 
STEVENS, and Mr. MCCONNELL): 
S. 2319. A bill to require analysis and esti­
mates of the likely impact of Federal legisla­
tion and regulations upon the private sector 
and State and local governments, and for 
other purposes; to the Committee on Govern­
mental Affairs. 
By Mr. WELLSTONE (for himself, Mr. 
METZENBAUM, and Mr. SIMON): 
S. 2320. A bill to amend the Public Health 
Service Act to provide universal health care 
to all Americans, and for other purposes; to 
the Committee on Finance. 
By Mr. AKAKA (for himself, Mr. HEF­
LIN, Mr. JOHNSTON, Mr. WALLOP, Mr. 
MITCHELL, Mr. MURKOWSKI, Mr. FORD, 
Mr. GARN, Mr. INOUYE, Mr. SHELBY, 
Mr. BINGAMAN, Mr. GRAHAM, and Mr. 
EXON): 
S. 2321. A bill to increase the authoriza­
tions for the War in the Pacific National His­
torical Park, Guam, and the American Me­
morial Park, Saipan, and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Re­
sources. 
By Mr. CRANSTON (for himself , Mr. 
SPECTER, Mr. DECONCINI, Mr. ROCKE­
FELLER, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr. AKAKA, Mr. 
DASCHLE, Mr. SIMPSON, Mr. THUR­
MOND, Mr. MURKOWSKI, and Mr. JEF­
FORDS): 
S. 2322. A bill to increase the rates of com­
pensation for veterans with service-con­
nected disabilities and the rates of depend­
ency and indemnity compensation for the 
survivors of certain disabled veterans ; to the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs . 
By Mr . CRANSTON (for himself and 
Mr. DECONCINI): 
S. 2323. A bill to amend title 38, United 
States Code , to revise the rates of depend­
ency and indemnity compensation payable 
to surviving spouses of certain service-dis­
abled veterans, to provide supplemental 
service disabled veterans ' insurance for to­
tally disabled veterans, and for other pur­
poses; to the Committee on Veterans ' Af­
fairs. 
By Mr. LEAHY (for himself and Mr. 
DOLE): 
S. 2324. A bill to amend the Food Stamp 
Act of 1977 to make a technical correction 
relating to exclusions from income under the 
food stamp program, and for other purposes; 
considered and passed. 
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND 
SENATE RESOLUTIONS 
The following concurrent resolutions 
and Senate resolutions were read, and 
referred (or acted upon), as indicated: 
By Mr. SIMON (for himself, Mr. AKAKA, 
Mr. BUMPERS, Mr. D'AMATO, Mr. 
DASCHLE, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. SAN­
FORD, Mr. SHELBY, and Mr. WOFFORD): 
S. Res. 264. Resolution to express the sense 
of the Senate that people in the United 
States should plant more trees in their com­
munities; to the Committee on Environment 
and Public Works. 
By Mr. SIMON (for himself, Mr. AKAKA, 
Mr. BUMPERS, Mr. D'AMATO, Mr. 
DASCHLE, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. SAN­
FORD, Mr. SHELBY, and Mr. WOFFORD): 
S. Res . 265. Resolution to express the sense 
of the Senate that the United Nations should 
designate 1993 as the "Year of the Tree" in 
order to encourage the citizens of the world 
to plant trees; to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations . 
By Mr. McCAIN (for himself, Mr. 
D'AMATO, Mr. KERRY, Mr. DECONCINI, 
Mr. DIXON, Mr. SHELBY, Mr. SMITH, 
Mr. THURMOND, Mr. LEVIN, Mr. WAR­
NER, Mr. SIMON, Mr. GLENN, Mr. GRA­
HAM, Mr. BRYAN, Mr. HATCH, Mr. 
KOHL, Mr. HELMS, Mr. BOND, Mr. 
AKAKA, and Mr. GRASSLEY): 
S. Res. 266. Resolution expressing the sense 
of the Senate concerning the arms cargo of 
the · North Korean merchant ship Dae Hung 
Ho; to the Committee on Foreign Relations. 
STATEMENTS ON BILLS AND 
JOINT RESOLUTIONS 
By Mr. BENTSEN (for himself 
and Mr. PACKWOOD): 
S. 2318. A bill to amend title XVIII of 
the Social Security Act to make tech­
nical corrections relating to the Omni­
bus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990; 
to the Committee on Finance. 
TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO THE OMNIBUS 
BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT OF 1990 
• Mr. BENTSEN. Mr. President, last 
March, Senator PACKWOOD and I intro­
duced S. 750, the Technical Corrections 
Act of 1991, a bill to make technical 
corrections to the Omnibus Budget 
Reconciliation Act [OBRA] of 1990. 
Since then, we have received construc­
tive comments on the bill from a num­
ber of sources and it is my intention 
that the Finance Committee take ac­
tion on S. 750 soon. 
It has come to our attention that 
some insurance companies are suggest­
ing to Medicare beneficiaries that 
OBRA 1990 includes a provision that 
was deliberately intended to deny Med­
icare beneficiaries the ability to make 
a free choice regarding purchase of 
health insurance coverage. This infor­
mation is inaccurate, misdirected, and 
not constructive. 
The provision to which these letters 
refer was intended to strengthen pre­
vious prohibitions on the sale of a Med­
icare supplemental (Medigap) insur­
ance policy to an individual already 
covered by another Medigap policy. Un­
fortunately, while the legislative his­
tory supports this narrow intent, a 
strict reading of the statutory lan­
guage suggests that the provision may 
also be interpreted to restrict the sale 
of other health insurance products 
with coverage that duplicates Medicare 
or Medigap benefits. 
When this issue first came to our at­
tention last November, Senator PACK­
WOOD and I sent a letter to the Health 
Care Financing Administration indi­
cating the intent of the OBRA 1990 con­
ferees, based upon the joint explana­
tory statement submitted with the 
conference report accompanying H.R. 
5835, was to first, prohibit the sale of a 
Medigap policy to an individual al­
ready covered under a Medigap policy; 
second, prohibit the sale of a Medigap 
policy to a Medicaid beneficiary; and 
third, strengthen the enforcement pro­
visions that were already in the stat­
ute. 
The bill we introduce today would 
amend the statutory language. It is our 
intention to take action on this bill 
when the Committee on Finance takes 
up S. 750 this year.• 
By Mr. NICKLES (for himself, 
Mr. REID, Mr. COCHRAN, Mr. 
BURNS, Mr. DOLE, Mr. HELMS, 
Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. STEVENS, 
and Mr. MCCONNELL): 
S. 2319. A bill to require analysis and 
estimates of the likely impact of Fed­
eral legislation and regulations upon 
the private sector and State and local 
governments , and for other purposes; 
to the Committee on Governmental Af­
fairs. 
ECONOMIC AND EMPLOYMENT IMP ACT ACT OF 1992 
Mr. NICKLES. Mr. President, today I 
along with several of my colleagues are 
introducing the Economic and Employ­
ment Impact Act of 1992 which will re­
quire a full disclosure of all costs asso­
ciated with legislation considered by 
Congress as well as any regulations 
promulgated by a Federal agency. 
In 1990 the total annual cost of Fed­
eral regulation was upward of $562 bil­
lion and is projected to be as much as 
$688 billion by the year 2000. The Amer­
ican taxpayer is very aware of the 
costs of Government that show up in 
the Federal budget. Howev~r. we are 
less sensitive to the hidden cost of 
troublesome legislative and regulatory 
burdens. According to a report on the 
cost of regulation done by Thomas 
Hopkins at the Rochester Institute of 
Technology , total regulatory cost per 
household in 1992 will be $4,272 and will 
rise to $4,647 in the year 2000. 
Often, Congress fails to consider how 
much a new law or regulation increases 
the cost of products and services to 
consumers or the loss in jobs when 
businesses have to cut back in response 
to growing Federal demands . The Eco­
nomic and Employment Impact Act 
will make Congress and the adminis­
tration aware of the impact, positive 
and negative, that legislation has on 
the private sector, individuals, and 
State and local governments. 

--- PDF PAGE 53 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4543 
The act would require that all legis­
lation considered by Congress be ac­
companied by an economic and em­
ployment impact statement. The state­
ments will contain the positive and 
negative effects on employment, gross 
domestic product, the ability of U.S. 
industries to compete internationally, 
and the cost to consumers. Further, it 
would require that final regulations 
and proposed regulations promulgated 
by executive branch agencies also be 
accompanied by such a statement. 
To prevent an unwarranted delay in 
the legislative and regulatory process, 
a detailed assessment will not be re­
quired if a preliminary analysis indi­
cates that the aggregate effect of the 
legislation is less than $10 million or 
results in reduced employment of less 
than 1,000 jobs. Congress may also 
waive the provisions regarding the im­
pact statement by a three-fifths vote of 
either House. 
Similar legislation was unanimously 
agreed to in the form of an amendment 
I authored during the lOOth Congress. 
With that, Congress has sent a signal 
to our Nation's citizens that it cares 
about out-of-control Federal mandates 
and is ready to take steps to rectify its 
excessive regulation. 
I do not believe economic forecasts 
are perfect and economists are not ora­
cles. However, economists have tools 
which governments and industries 
around the world use every day. But 
today, Congress is not getting the best 
available economic advice on how a 
new law or regulation will affect the 
vast and varied American economy. 
Congress is not applying these eco­
nomic tools to the vast number of 
pressing issues that face the Nation. 
Some will say the purpose of this leg­
islation is to hinder the regulatory 
process, not so. The intent of this legis­
lation is to establish a process to en­
sure better and more efficient regula­
tion. The process this legislation sets 
up does not pass judgment on whether 
a bill or regulation is good or bad but 
simply completes the formula as Con­
gress considers legislation and the ex­
ecutive branch promulgates regulation. 
Mr. Thomas Hopkins, Professor of 
Economics at the Rochester Institute 
of Technology, sums it up best in his 
paper the "Cost of Regulation"; "The 
point here is simply that enough evi­
dence exists, however incomplete it 
may be, to suggest that regulatory 
costs are substantial and growing. The 
magnitudes are large enough to war­
rant a more vigorous effort to firm up 
these cost estimates and to examine 
regulatory benefits with greater care 
in the interests of more rational public 
policy." 
While there are many seemingly 
"good ideas" out there in the form of 
new legislation, our economy simply 
cannot absorb every good idea coming 
down the pike. We must send the 
American people a positive signal by 
showing them we will only support 
"good ideas" that make sense to the 
economy and employment. 
Mr. REID. Mr. President, how many 
times do we hear or read about the pri­
vate sector, as well as State and local 
governments, getting stuck with the 
tab when mandates are issued by the 
Federal Government? Legislation 
passed by Congress and regulations is­
sued by the executive branch are finan­
cially strapping businesses and placing 
many States and localities in precar­
ious budget situations. In many cases, 
unemployment is the result. Mr. Presi­
dent, this situation must be addressed. 
I would never pretend to come before 
this body and say that we must stop 
the regulation. Much of the legislation 
that we pass here is necessary. I don't 
believe that can be disputed. However, 
it is also true that when we do pass leg­
islation, we may not know the total 
economic and employment ramifica­
tions that result from our actions. 
Today I am introducing bipartisan 
legislation, along with Senator NICK­
LES of Oklahoma, that is nothing less 
than common sense, good government. 
This legislation will ensure that the 
American people are fully aware of the 
impact that Federal legislative and 
regulatory activity will have on eco­
nomic growth and employment. It will 
require that both Congress and the ex­
ecutive branch take responsibility for 
the fiscal and economic effects that re­
sult from our actions. In essence, it 
will stop us from operating in an eco­
nomic vacuum. 
The Economic and Employment Im­
pact Act of 1992 would require all legis­
lation considered by Congress, and any 
regulation promulgated by a Federal 
agency, to be accompanied by an "eco­
nomic and employment impact state­
ment." The statements will declare the 
proposals' effects on employment, 
gross domestic product, consumer 
costs, and the ability of U.S. industries 
to compete internationally. These is­
sues would be addressed as they relate 
to the private sector, individuals, and/ 
or State and local governments. 
The economic and employment im­
pact statement required by this legisla­
tion will be prepared by the General 
Accounting Office and accompany each 
bill, resolution, or conference report 
before the measure may be reported or 
otherwise considered on the floor of ei­
ther House. The legislation will also re­
quire Federal departments and agen­
cies to prepare this statement for each 
regulation and proposed regulation 
promulgated by that agency and pub­
lish the statement in the Federal Reg­
ister. 
To prevent an unwarranted delay in 
the legislative and regulatory process, 
a detailed assessment will not be re­
quired if a preliminary analysis indi­
cates that the aggregate effect of the 
legislation is less than $10 million or 
results in reduced employment of less 
than 1,000 jobs. Congress may also 
waive the provisions regarding the im­
pact statement by a three-fifths vote of 
either House. 
Just last week some bankers from 
Nevada stopped by for their annual 
visit. They gave me a list of 44 regu­
latory provisions that Congress alone 
has passed over the last 5 years. Mr. 
President, no one would argue that 
Congress is responsible for the regula­
tion of this industry. The Federal Gov­
ernment is responsible for paying off 
depositors should a bank fail, and, as a 
result, must ensure the safety and 
soundness of the industry. However, 
were the economic ramifications of 
these 44 provisions considered? Prob­
ably not in all cases. 
According to the bankers, complying 
with Government regulations is cost­
ing between $500 million to $1 billion 
per year, nationwide. I would have to 
believe that most of these costs are 
eventually passed on to the customer, 
either in the form of higher fees or re­
duced bank credit available to local 
communities. 
In addition, Mr. President, I continue 
to hear from State, county, and local 
governments about problems with Fed­
eral mandates. The National Associa­
tion of Counties recently adopted a res­
olution that among other things 
states, "Federal assistance to States, 
counties and municipalities still is de­
clining in real dollar terms while fur­
ther Federal mandates continue to be 
imposed." The resolution continues, 
"It is essential to reduce unfunded 
mandates and to oppose new mandated 
programs unless adequate Federal or 
State funding is provided." 
I have to stress that regulation is a 
necessary evil in our world today. As a 
member of the Environment and Public 
Works Committee I am well aware of 
this fact. It is the duty of Congress to 
ensure the safety and soundness of the 
American people. But, Mr. President, 
lets make these decisions based on the 
entire picture. Having an economic and 
employment impact statement that ac­
companies legislation will allow us to 
pass measures that will be the - least 
disruptive to economic growth and em­
ployment opportunities. 
I urge my colleagues to cosponsor the 
Economic and Employment Impact Act 
of 1992. 
Mr. HELMS. Mr. President, I rise as 
an original cosponsor of the Economic 
and Employment Impact Act of 1992 in­
troduced by my distinguished col­
leagues, Senator NICKLES and Senator 
REID. 
It would be impossible to overesti­
mate the current rapid expansion of 
government involvement in business in 
the United States. The majority of 
public policy changes affecting busi­
ness-government relations in recent 
years has unquestionably been in the 
direction of greater governmental 
intervention-environmental controls, 

--- PDF PAGE 54 ---
4544 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
equal employment opportunity en­
forcement, consumer product safety 
regulations, energy restrictions--the 
list goes on and on. Indeed, when we at­
tempt to look at the emerging busi­
ness-government relationship from the 
business executive's viewpoint, we see 
a very considerable Federal Govern­
ment presence in what historically 
have been private affairs. 
Mr. President, no one who operates a 
business today, whether it be the head 
of a large corporation or the mon-and­
pop general store, can escape the mul­
titude of Government restrictions and 
regulations. His or her costs and prof­
its are affected as much by a bill 
passed by Congress as by an executive 
decision in the front office or a cus­
tomer's decision at the checkout 
counter. Every industry in the United 
States is feeling the rising power of 
government regulation in it's day-to­
day operations. 
At first glance, Government imposi­
tion-and make no mistake that's ex­
actly what it is-of socially desirable 
regulations on business through the 
regulatory process appears to be an in­
expensive way of achieving national 
objectives. This practice apparently 
costs the Government little, about one­
percent of the Federal budget. But the 
public does not escape paying the costs 
so easily. 
For example, every time the Environ­
mental Protection Agency imposes a 
more costly method of production on 
any firm, the cost of the firm's product 
to the consumer will tend to rise. 
These high prices represent nothing 
more than the hidden tax of regulation 
that is shifted from the Government to 
the consumer. According to the Center 
for the Study of American Business at 
Washington University, on the average, 
each dollar that Congress appropriates 
for regulation results in an additional 
$20 of costs imposed on the private sec­
tor of the economy. Mr. President, this 
is outrageous and should be stopped. 
Moreover, to the extent that Govern­
ment-mandated regulations impose 
similar costs on all price categories of 
a given product, such as automobiles, 
this hidden tax tends to be more re­
gressive than the income or sales tax. 
According to the Motor Vehicle Manu­
facturers Association, which tracks the 
costs of Government-mandated regula­
tions on automobiles, the additional 
cost of an automobile that is assumed 
by the consumer in safety and emis­
sions requirements is $2,717.57 per car. 
This figure does not include the costs 
for improved warranties, corrosion pro­
tection, changes in standard equipment 
or the requirements of the Occupa­
tional Safety and Health Administra­
tion and the Equal Employment Oppor­
tunity Commission. For a car costing 
$16,000, this amounts to approximately 
$1 out of every $8 paid by the consumer 
for Government regulations. Of course, 
it is not inevitable that every regu-
latory activity will increase inflation­
ary pressures. Where regulation gen­
erates social benefits in excess of the 
social costs it imposes, inflationary 
pressures should be reduced. 
Mr. President, because of the rapid 
proliferation of Government regulatory 
activity, it would be a useful attempt 
to measure this phenomenon. Under 
the provisions of the Economic and 
Employment Act all legislation consid­
ered by Congress would be accompanied 
by an economic and employment im­
pact statement that would contain 
both the positive and negative effects 
on employment, general domestic prod­
uct, the ability of U.S. industries to 
compete internationally and the cost 
to consumers. 
To be sure, the intent of this bill is 
not to unnecessarily delay legislation. 
Therefore, in cases where a preliminary 
analysis indicates that the aggregate 
effect of the legislation is less than $10 
million or reduces employment less 
than 1,000 jobs, a detailed cost-benefit 
assessment will not be required. 
Mr. President, an untold number of 
bills are considered, and too many ap­
proved, by Congress at the demands of 
the thousands of special interest 
groups in Washington without the 
slightest consideration for the Amer­
ican producers and consumers. Well, 
those are the people I was sent here to 
represent, not the special interest 
groups, and they are telling me that 
they have had enough of Big Brother in 
Washington. 
I concluded long ago that the best 
thing the Federal Government can do 
for American businesses, large and 
small, is to do as little as possible. I 
recognize that some regulation may be 
necessary, but that type of Govern­
ment interference should be kept to a 
very minimum. 
Mr. President, this is good legisla­
tion, it's long overdue and, most im­
portantly, it is what the American peo­
ple want. The very least Congress can 
do, especially now, is assure the Amer­
ican people that it will not impose reg­
ulations that would increase costs to 
consumers, cost workers their jobs or 
damage the ability of our industries to 
compete internationally. 
By Mr. WELLS TONE (for him­
self, Mr. METZENBAUM, and Mr. 
SIMON): 
S. 2320. A bill to amend the Public 
Heal th Service Act to provide universal 
health care to all Americans, and for 
other purposes; to the Committee on 
Finance. 
UNIVERSAL HEALTH CARE ACT 
Mr. WELLSTONE. Mr. President, I 
rise to introduce the Universal Health 
Care Act of 1992. This bill sets up a Na­
tional Health Insurance Program, a 
single payer system. 
This is the companion bill to R.R. 
1300, introduced in the House of Rep­
resentative last year by Congressman 
MARTY Russo. I am pleased to include 
as original co-sponsors Senator HOW­
ARD METZENBAUM of Ohio and Senator 
PAUL SIMON of Illinois. 
Organizations supporting this bill in­
clude Actors Equity; Amalgamated 
Clothing and Textile Workers Union; 
American Federation of State, County 
and Municipal Employees; the Amer­
ican Medical Students Association; 
American Postal Workers Union; 
American Public Health Association; 
Children's Defense Fund; Consumer 
Federation of America; Citizen Action; 
Communication Workers of America; 
Consumers Union; Families U.S.A.; 
Graphic Artist Guild; International As­
sociation of Machinists and Aerospace 
Workers; International Ladies' Gar­
ment Workers; International Union of 
Electronic, Electrical, Salaried, Ma­
chine and Furniture Workers; National 
Association of Social Workers; Na­
tional Council of Senior Citizens; Oil; 
Chemical and Atomic Workers Inter­
national Union; Physicians for a Na­
tional Health Program; Public Citizen; 
the Screen Actors Guild; Transport 
Workers Union; United Automobile, 
Aerospace and Agricultural Implement 
Workers of America; United Electrical, 
Radio and Machine Workers of Amer­
ica; United Mine Workers. 
The goal of this legislation is this: To 
insure access to affordable, quality 
health care to every American citi­
zen-regardless of income, regardless of 
employment status, regardless of cur­
rent health condition, regardless of 
age, and to achieve this access in the 
most efficient and equitable manner. 
Let's compare this goal to our present 
realities: 
More than 34 million Americans 
without health insurance-our chil­
dren, our workers, our farmers, our 
small business people, our unem­
ployed-a reality. 
So many uninsured that there are 
now more uninsured Americans than at 
any time since the creation of Medi­
care and Medicaid in 196~a reality. 
Millions more Americans, increas­
ingly the middle class, with too little 
insurance-a reality. 
Virtually all Americans who do have 
health insurance are just one job or 
one illness away from losing · their 
heal th insurance-a reality. 
The United States as the only major 
industrialized country other than 
South Africa which fails to guarantee 
all of its citizens access to medical 
care-a reality, a disgraceful reality. 
Families bankrupted by long-term 
illnesses, a fate that could befall vir­
tually any one of us at any time-a 
reality. 
A quarter of our health dollar spent 
on billing and administration, instead 
of on the actual care of people in 
need-a reality. 
And the number of health adminis­
trators rising three times as fast as the 
number of physicians or other health 
workers-a reality. 

--- PDF PAGE 55 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4545 
The United States spending more on 
health care than any other nation, 
more than 13 percent of our gross na­
tional product-a reality. 
And the United States projected, on 
current course, to spend 17 percent of 
our GNP on health care costs by the 
. year 2000 and 37 percent by the year 
2030. This we cannot let become a re­
ality. 
We have the most expensive health 
care system in the world. 
The most expensive, and the least 
popular among developed countries. 
The most expensive, and the least 
comprehensive among developed coun­
tries. 
The most expensive, and the most 
confusing and bewildering for consum­
ers and for heal th care providers. 
It will be these realities that will 
make health care reform a reality. Be­
cause the reality is, we have no other 
choice. 
So the question is no longer whether 
there will be health care reform. The 
question is what shape that reform will 
take. 
I believe we need fundamental re­
form-a complete overhaul of a heal th 
care system that is too costly, too ar­
bitrary, too unfair. 
Think about the system we have 
today. 
Today there are more than 1,500 pri­
vate heal th insurance companies. In 
large part, they compete based on risk 
selection-that is, insuring only the 
healthiest individuals they can find­
instead of competing on efficiency or 
service. 
We have let a private industry, the 
private insurance industry, write the 
rules, make the decisions about who 
gets insurance and who must go with­
out. 
And what has the insurance industry 
decided about who gets care and who 
does not? The industry has decided 
that it will seek to maximize its profits 
by insuring only well people. 
People who are most in need of medi­
cal care frequently cannot get health 
insurance. 
No one-no one-in our country has a 
guarantee that their private health in­
surance will be there when they need 
it. 
This is ludicrous. This is absurb. This 
turns the very concept of insurance on 
its head. We are moving toward the day 
when you can only get insurance when 
you can demonstrate that you won't 
need it. 
This isn't to say that insurance com­
panies operate with bad intent. What 
I'm saying is insurance companies are 
operating in a system with perverse in­
centives. 
It is time to make sense out of the 
system. 
And so today I introduce the Univer­
sal Heal th Care Act of 1992. 
A National Health Insurance Pro­
gram is the simplest, most efficient, 
most equitable way to reform our 
health care system. The concept is to 
streamline and simplify the adminis­
tration of heal th care and perserve and 
enhance consumer choice in the deliv­
ery of health care. 
A national heal th insurance system 
would be funded through a single 
source, the Government, but adminis­
tered in large part through the States. 
There would be no barriers to care, 
no gaps in coverage. The Government 
would become the sole health insurer. 
Consumers would simply show their 
national health card to receive health 
care from the heal th provider of their 
choice. Everyone would be entitled to 
the same benefits, and these would not 
change when a person changed jobs or 
moved to a different State. No one 
would lose coverage because they got 
sick. 
This bill contains a comprehensive 
package of benefits, including hospital 
and physician care, long-term care, 
prescription drugs, preventive care, 
and defined mental health benefits. 
Services would be delivered through 
the same sources as today: Private doc­
tors and nurses, health maintenance 
organizations, clinics, nursing homes, 
hospitals. 
In other words, the Federal Govern­
ment-with contributions from the 
States-would finance the system but 
would not run the clinics, the doctors' 
offices, the hospitals. 
An emphasis would be placed on pri­
mary and preventive care. This would 
allow us to address health problems be­
fore they become more serious-and 
more expensive. 
The National Health Insurance Pro­
gram would allow us to better plan how 
and where to spend our health care dol­
lars so that we invest our resources 
where they are most needed. Unfortu­
nately, today we often invest our 
health care dollars where the money 
can return the highest investment. 
This results in an oversupply of high­
technology equipment and facilities in 
some areas-and total lack of nec­
essary investment in other areas. And 
we have created a system of disincen­
tives for health care providers to prac­
tice in areas that are in the most need 
of their services. 
The bill requires that in setting re­
imbursement rates for health care pro­
viders the government encourage the 
location of providers in rural and medi­
cally underserved areas. In addition, 
the bill requires that one of the factors 
that must be considered in setting 
State health care budgets and capital 
budgets is the geographic distribution 
of each State's population, particulary 
the proportion of the population resid­
ing in rural or medically underserved 
areas. 
In large measure, the cost of a Na­
tional Heal th Insurance Program could 
be borne by the savings gained from ad­
ministrative efficiences and other cost 
control measures. 
In fact, a report released last year by 
the General Accounting Office found 
that adoption of a single payer system 
like Canada's in the United States 
would save an estimated $67 billion a 
year in adiminstrative costs, far more 
than necessary to pay for insurance for 
all uninsured Americans . 
Another study published by the New 
England Journal of Medicine found 
that we could save even more money if 
we were as efficient as Canada in ad­
ministering our health care system, 
perhaps more than $100 billion a year. 
I firmly believe that it will be the po­
tential for cost control and cost sav­
ings which will drive the heal th care 
debate and drive health care reform. 
And it is this potential for cost sav­
ings which is in large part responsible 
for the growing support-inside and 
outside Washington-for a single payer 
system because the fact is that there is 
no longer any serious debate that a sin­
gle payer system offers the greatest po­
tential for cost savings of any reform 
proposal. 
It is this cost saving potential which 
has the ability to bring together un­
usual coalitions . in support of a single 
payer system. 
And what will be the cost of a na­
tional health care system? 
The most realistic answer to this 
question is that we can achieve univer­
sal access through a national health 
care system for the same level of 
spending as today. 
The money will be spent in different 
ways from today. We will save money 
in administrative costs, and we will 
plow that money back into medical 
care. 
And the money will be raised in dif­
ferent ways from today. There will be 
no more spending for insurance pre­
miums for covered benefits. There will 
be no more out-of-pocket spending. In­
stead, we will be publicly financing the 
system. 
Yes, I'm talking about raising taxes 
to finance the system. But these new 
taxes will be offset by reduced private 
spending for health insurance. And 
these taxes will be dedicated to a na­
tional heal th trust fund to insure that 
these taxes are spent on health care, 
and only on health care. 
So we will have higher taxes, but not 
higher spending for health care. In 
fact, many people will spend less for 
health care under a national single 
payer system. 
For example, a typical family of four 
earning $27 ,400 would have a net sav­
ings of more than $1,400. A family of 
four earning $39,200 would have a net 
savings of more than $1,600. And a fam­
ily of four earning $54,000 would have a 
net savings of $1,700. 
This is very achievable. 
The GAO report that I mentioned 
earlier estimated that we would save 
$67 billion in administrative costs in 
the first year of a single payer system. 

--- PDF PAGE 56 ---
4546 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
The GAO also found that it would cost 
about $64 billion in additional spending 
to pay for insuring the uninsured and 
providing additional services to those 
currently with insurance. So there 
would be a net savings nationwide of 
about S3 billion. 
A more recent study by the CBO, 
using some different assumptions from 
GAO, found that we would have a net 
savings of $26 billion under a single 
payer system. In other words, taking 
into account both the increased sav­
ings from administrative costs and in­
creased spending to cover the unin­
sured and underinsured, we would save 
$26 billion a year. 
Over time, our savings would be even 
more dramatic-because the system 
will provide us with a mechanism for 
drastically reducing the rate of in­
crease for health care spending. In 
part, this is accomplished by providing 
that health care spending will be al­
lowed to increase only as much as the 
annual percentage increase in GNP. 
In 5 years, the plan would save the 
Nation over $900 billion in health care 
spending. 
A National Health Insurance Pro­
gram can live up to its billing. This is 
a program that can work. 
It does work in our neighbor to the 
north, Canada. We need to study the 
Canadian example, learn from its suc­
cesses and failures and use American 
innovation and technology to establish 
the finest-and most efficient and equi­
table-health system. 
No one is saying we should adopt the 
Canadian system wholesale in the 
United States. We must preserve the 
strengths of our heal th care system­
our HMO plans, our centers of excel­
lence, our technological advances. 
Now we have all heard some -scare 
stories about the Canadian system. 
These stories have been greatly exag­
gerated. 
The truth is, polls show Canadians to 
be more satisfied with their health care 
system than citizens in any other 
country. And polls show Americans to 
be the least satisfied. 
What about the issue of rationing? 
The truth is the United States al­
ready rations heal th care-in "irra­
tional ways," according to the Journal 
of the American Medical Association. 
At present, we ration health care by 
ability to pay, by health status, and by 
employment status. People who cannot 
afford health insurance do not get the 
same health care as others. People who 
need health care the most because of 
serious illness are blacklisted; they 
cannot get private health insurance be­
cause of pre-existing conditions. And 
people who are self-employed or who 
work for or own small businesses or 
who are unemployed are often unable 
to get insurance. 
Under a national health insurance 
system, we will waste billions and bil­
lions fewer dollar&-billions now spent 
unnecessarily on bureaucracy and ad­
ministration. And we will be able to 
spend this money on care. 
A National Health Insurance Pro­
gram would grant every citizen equal 
access to health care. Medical care 
would depend on a professional assess­
ment of medical need rather than on 
insurance status. And the National 
Health Insurance Program would give 
us the framework for reasoned plan­
ning and decisionmaking about how to 
invest and spend our health care dol­
lars. 
In the Senate this session, the debate 
over reform has focused to a large · ex­
tent on the HealthAmerican legislation 
introduced by the Democratic leader­
ship, S. 1227. 
I share the goals of the leadership 
bill-universal access to health care 
and cost containment. 
But I have some different thoughts 
about how best to achieve these goals. 
I am concerned about the 
HealthAmerica bill's linkage of health 
care coverage to employment status. 
This employer mandate, pay or play 
approach, can lead to a two-tier system 
which can be inefficient and inequi­
table. 
An employer mandate bill like 
HealthAmerica also cannot control 
health care costs as efficiently as a sin­
gle payer system. Without the ability 
to strictly control costs, I worry about 
our ability to pay for heal th insurance. 
I am also concerned about the benefit 
package in HealthAmerica. There is 
not enough emphasis given to primary 
and preventive care. There is no cov­
erage for long-term care. Nor is there 
coverage for prescription drugs. 
All this said, however, 
HealthAmerica is a major step forward. 
Achieving universal access and some 
cost control through an employer man­
date system may be an interim solu­
tion to our crisis. 
And so I voted for HealthAmerica 
when it passed out of the Labor Com­
mittee in January. And I am particu­
larly pleased to note that the bill was 
significantly changed-and strength­
ened-by the Labor Committee. 
One amendment puts in place a sys­
tem of mandatory cost containment-­
mandatory rate setting and other 
measures aimed at achieving expendi­
ture targets for the nation as a whole 
and for specific heal th care sectors. A 
second amendment is one that I pro­
posed which allows individual States to 
opt out of the employer mandate sys­
tem and set up statewide single payer 
systems. 
With these two amendments, 
HealthAmerica becomes a fundamen­
tally improved bill. 
Still, I believe the ultimate answer 
to our crisis of access and our crisis of 
cost is a national single payer system, 
a national health insurance program. 
This national health insurance pro­
posal won't pass Congress this year-
but it is what we should be aiming for, 
what I will be fighting for, as we march 
forward. 
And I will be working to improve this 
legislation, for this is certainly not my 
final word on health care reform. 
I believe we need to give more 
thought to the delivery of services to 
ensure more efficient delivery of serv­
ices, more emphasis on primary and 
preventive care and more emphasis on 
community-based care. 
We also need to give more thought to 
how to eliminate unnecessary and in­
appropriate care, which accounts for 
billions upon billions of dollars of 
wasteful spending. 
And we need to give more thought 
about how to define the package of 
mental health benefits. The bill I in­
troduce today limits these benefits by 
days of care. But there is a tremendous 
amount of policy work underway right 
now on how to remove arbitrary limi­
tations on these benefits while at the 
same time putting in place a system to 
protect against unnecessary treatment. 
And I know we will come up with a bet­
ter solution to this issue. 
Together we must work to improve 
and refine our idea. 
Together we must work to solve our 
crisis of access. 
Together we must work to solve our 
crisis of cost. 
Together we must work together to 
make reform a reality. 
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con­
sent that the text of my bill be printed 
in the RECORD at the conclusion of my 
remarks. 
There being no objection, the bill was 
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as 
follows: 
s. 2320 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep­
resentatives of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE, TABLE OF CONTENTS. 
(a) SHORT TITLE.-This Act may be cited as 
"Universal Health Care Act of 1992". 
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.-The table of con­
tents is as follows: 
Sec. 1. Short title. 
Sec. 2. National health insurance program. 
Sec. 3. Financing. 
Sec. 4. Termination of other programs. 
Sec. 5. Effective date for benefits. 
SEC. 2. NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE PRO­
GRAM. 
(a) REQUIREMENT.-The Public Health Serv­
ice Act is amended-
(1) by redesignating title XXVII (42 U.S.C. 
300cc et seq.) as title xxvm; and 
(2) by inserting after title XXVI the follow­
ing new title: 
"TITLE XXVII-NATIONAL HEALTH 
INSURANCE PROGRAM 
"PART A-ELIGIBILITY AND ENTITLEMENT 
"SEC. 2701. ELIGIBILITY AND ENTITLEMENT. 
"(a) IN GENERAL.-Every individual who is 
a resident of the United States and is a citi­
zen or national of the United States or law­
ful resident alien (as defined in subsection 
(c)) is entitled to health insurance benefits 
under this title for each month in which the 
individual meets such condition. 

--- PDF PAGE 57 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4547 
"(b) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN NON­
IMMIGRANTS.-
"(l) IN GENERAL.-The Secretary may make 
eligible to enroll for coverage for health ben­
efits under this title such classes of aliens 
admitted to the United States as non­
immigrants as the Secretary may provide. 
"(2) CONSIDERATION.-ln providing for eligi­
bility under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
shall consider reciprocity in health care ben­
efits offered to individuals described in sub­
section (a) who are nonimmigrants in other 
foreign states, and such other factors as the 
Secretary deems appropriate. 
"(c) LAWFUL RESIDENT ALIEN DEFINED.-In 
this section, the term 'lawful resident alien' 
means an alien lawfully admitted for perma­
nent residence and any other alien lawfully 
residing permanently in the United States 
under color of law, including an alien grant­
ed asylum or with lawful temporary resident 
status under section 210, 210A, or 245A of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act. 
"SEC. 2702. ENROILMENT. 
"(a) IN GENERAL.-The Secretary shall pro­
vide a mechanism for the enrollment of indi­
viduals entitled to benefits under this title 
and, in conjunction with such enrollment, 
the issuance of a national health insurance 
card which may be used for purposes of iden­
tification and processing of claims for bene­
fits under this title. 
"(b) ENROLLMENT AT BIRTH OR lMMIGRA­
TION.-The mechanism under subsection (a) 
shall include a process for the automatic en­
rollment of individuals at the time of birth 
in the United States or at the time of immi­
gration into the United States or other ac­
quisition of lawful resident status in the 
United States. Such mechanism shall also 
provide for the enrollment of eligible indi­
viduals as of January 1, 1994. 
"PART B-BENEFITS 
"SEC. 2711. SCOPE OF BENEFITS. 
"(a) IN GENERAL.-Except as provided in 
the succeeding provisions of this part, the 
benefits provided to an individual by the pro­
gram established by this title shall consist of 
entitlement to have payment made on the 
individual's behalf for benefits necessary or 
appropriate for the maintenance of health or 
for the diagnosis or treatment or rehabilita­
tion following injury, disability or disease, 
as follows: 
"(1) Inpatient and outpatient hospital care, 
except that treatment for a mental disorder 
and drug and alcohol abuse treatment serv­
ices are subject to the special limitations de­
scribed in paragraphs (11) and (12). 
"(2) Services of health care professionals 
who are authorized to provide such services 
under State law, except that treatment for a 
mental disorder and drug and alcohol abuse 
treatment services are subject to the special 
limitations described in paragraphs (11) and 
(12). 
"(3) Diagnostic testing services. 
"(4) Pre-natal, post-natal and well-baby 
care. 
"(5)(A) Preventive services in accordance 
with a schedule to be established by the Sec­
retary in consultation with experts in pre­
ventive medicine and public health and tak­
ing into consideration those preventive serv­
ices recommended by the Preventive Serv­
ices Task Force and published as the Guide 
to Clinical Preventive Services. Such sched­
ule shall include the periodicity with which 
the preventive services shall be provided, 
taking into consideration the cost-effective­
ness of appropriate preventive care. At a 
minimum such schedule shall include-
"(1) well-child care; 
"(ii) pap smears; 
"(iii) mammograms; 
"(iv) colorectal examinations; and 
"(v) examinations for prostate cancer. 
"(B) Such schedule shall be revised not less 
frequently than once every 5 years, in con­
sultation with experts in preventive medi­
cine and public health. 
"(6) Prescription drugs and biologicals. 
"(7) Dental care. 
"(8) Vision care. 
"(9) Nursing facility services. 
"(10) Hospice care. 
"(ll)(A) Inpatient care for a mental dis­
order, limited to 45 days per year, except 
that days of partial hospitalization or resi­
dential care may be substituted for days of 
inpatient care according to a ratio estab­
lished by the Secretary. 
"(B) Outpatient psychotherapy and coun­
seling for a mental disorder, limited to 20 
visits per year provided by a provider who is 
acting within the scope of State law and 
who-
"(i) is a physician; or 
"(ii) meets standards established by the 
Secretary and is a duly licensed or certified 
clinical psychologist, clinical social worker, 
or equivalent mental health professional, or 
a clinic or center providing duly licensed or 
certified mental health services. 
"(12) Drug and alcohol abuse or dependency 
treatment services provided under a treat­
ment program approved by the State and 
meeting State qualification standards, sub­
ject to an annual limitation of 45 inpatient 
days and 20 outpatient visits. 
"(13) Home and community-based services, 
limited to individuals-
"(A) over 18 years of age determined (in a 
manner specified by the Secretary)-
"(i) to be unable to perform, without the 
assistance of an individual, at least 2 of the 
following 5 activities of daily living (or who 
has a similar level of disability due to cog­
nitive impairment)-
"(!) bathing; 
"(II) eating ; 
"(III) dressing; 
"(IV) toileting; and 
"(V) transferring in and out of a bed or in 
and out of a chair; or 
"(ii) due to cognitive or mental impair­
ments, requires supervision because the indi­
vidual behaves in a manner that poses health 
or safety hazards to himself or herself or 
others; or 
"(B) under 19 years of age determined (in a 
manner specified by the Secretary) to meet 
such alternative standard of disability for 
children as the Secretary develops. 
"(14) Such other medical or health care 
items or services as the Secretary deter­
mines to be appropriate. 
"(b) No DEDUCTIBLES OR COINSURANCE.­
There shall be no coinsurance, deductibles, 
or copayments applicable to the covered ben­
efits referred to in subsection (a). 
"(c) CERTIFICATIONS FOR CERTAIN SERV­
ICES.-
"(1) IN GENERAL.-Except as provided with 
respect to eligible organizations under sec­
tion 2772(a)(10), payment for services fur­
nished an individual by a provider of services 
may be made only to providers of services 
which have entered into a participation 
agreement and only if the conditions de­
scribed in section 1814(a) or 1835(a) of the So­
cial Security Act have been met with respect 
to services to which such sections applied. 
"(2) SPECIAL RULES.-ln applying-
"(A) section 1814(a)(2)(B) of the Social Se­
curity Act as provided for under this sub­
section, in lieu of the certification described 
in that section with respect to post-hospital 
extended care services, there must be a cer­
tification with respect to nursing facility 
services that the services are or were re­
quired to be given because the individual 
needs or needed nursing care or skilled reha­
bilitation services which as a practice mat­
ter can only be provided in a nursing facility 
on an inpatient basis; and 
"(B) section 1814(a)(2)(C) of such Act as 
provided for under this subsection, the cer­
tifications that the individual is or was con­
fined to the individual's home and that the 
care be on an intermittent basis shall not 
apply. 
"(3) CERTIFICATION FOR HOME AND COMMU­
NITY-BASED SERVICES.- With respect to home 
and community-based services, there shall 
be required a certification of the type de­
scribed in section 1814(a) of the Social Secu­
rity Act as to the facts that the individual 
provided the service is within the limitations 
described in subsection (a)(13) and, except for 
the provision of such services, is at risk of 
institutionalization. 
"(d) STATE FINANCING OF SUPPLEMENTAL 
SERVICES.-An individual State, acting under 
section 273l(c), may at the option of such 
State provide for the coverage of additional 
health benefits or for the expanded eligi­
bility of persons entitled to health insurance 
benefits. The cost of any such additional 
benefits or expanded eligibility shall be ab­
sorbed by the individual State and not by 
the Federal Government. 
"(e) MENTAL HEALTH.-
"(l) COMMISSION.-The Secretary shall es­
tablish a commission to study and prepare 
and submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress a report containing recommenda­
tions concerning the manner in which the 
benefits for mental disorders and drug and 
alcohol abuse or dependency treatment serv­
ices should be modified to best meet the ob­
jectives of this title . 
"(2) COMPOSITION.-The Secretary shall, 
not later than January 1, 1993, appoint indi­
viduals to serve on the commission estab­
lished under paragraph (1). Such commission 
shall be composed of-
"(A) health care economists, 
"(B) representatives of the multi-discipli­
nary range of providers of the services de­
scribed in paragraph (1); 
"(C) consumers of such services; and 
"(D) advocacy groups representing con­
sumers of such services . 
"SEC. 2712. EXCLUSIONS. 
"(a) IN GENERAL.-Except as otherwise pro­
vided in this section, the provisions of sec­
tion 1862 of the Social Security Act shall 
apply to payments made under this title in 
the same manner as such provisions apply to 
payments made under part A or part B of 
title XVIII of such Act. 
"(b) EXCEPTIONS.-Under this title, the 
limitations specified in paragraphs (7) and 
(12) of section 1862(a) of the Social Security 
Act and the provisions of section 1862(b) of 
such Act shall not apply, and the limitations 
under paragraph (1) of such section 1862(b) 
shall not apply to preventive health services 
that the Secretary determines to be appro­
priate for the prevention of illness or dis­
ease. 
"SEC. 2713. APPROVED PRESCRIPTION DRUGS, 
DEVICES AND EQUIPMENT. 
"(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF LIST.-The Sec­
retary shall establish a list of approved pre­
scription drugs and biologicals, durable med­
ical equipment and therapeutic devices and 
equipment (including eyeglasses, hearing 
aids, and prosthetic appliances), that the 
Secretary determines are important for the 
maintenance or restoration of health or of 

--- PDF PAGE 58 ---
4548 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
employability or self-management and eligi­
ble for coverage under this title. 
"(b) CONSIDERATIONS AND CONDITIONS.-ln 
establishing the list under subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall take into consideration the 
efficacy, safety and cost of each item con­
tained on such list, and shall attach to any 
item such conditions as the Secretary deter­
mines appropriate with respect to the cir­
cumstances under which, or the frequency 
with which, the item may be prescribed. 
"(c) EXCLUSIONS.-The Secretary may ex­
clude reimbursement under this title for in­
effective, unsafe or overpriced products 
where better alternatives are determined to 
be available~ 
''PART C-PAYMENTS 
"SEC. 2721. PAYMENTS FOR HOSPITAL SERVICES 
AND NURSING FACILITY SERVICES. 
"(a) BASED ON APPROVED BUDGET.-
"(l) IN GENERAL.-ln the case of hospital 
services and nursing facility services, pay­
ment under this title shall be based on an 
annual budget for the operating expenses of 
the institution that shall be submitted to, 
and approved by, the Secretary (or the State 
in accordance with section 273l(c)) in a form 
and manner specified by the Secretary. Such 
approved budgets-
"(A) shall take into account amounts that 
are reasonable and necessary in the efficient 
provision of necessary hospital services and 
nursing facility services; 
"(B) shall not include amounts properly al­
locable to services that are not hospital serv­
ices or nursing facility services, respec­
tively; 
"(C) shall be consistent with the national 
and State health budgets established by the 
Secretary; and 
"(D) shall not include capital-related items 
and direct medical education. 
Payment under such budget shall only be 
changed to reflect changes in the volume or 
type of services if such changes are signifi­
cantly different than the volume or type of 
such services assumed in the approval of the 
budget. 
"(2) PERIODIC PAYMENTS.-The provisions of 
section 1815 of the Social Security Act (other 
than subsection (e)) shall apply to payments 
under this title in the same manner as they 
applied to payments under part A of title 
XVIII of such Act. 
"(3) SUBMITTAL TO STATE ADVISORY 
BOARDS.-Each hospital, nursing facility, or 
other institutional provider shall submit the 
budget of such institution to the State advi­
sory board (appointed under section 2736) for 
the State in which the institution is located 
prior to the approval of such budget by the 
Secretary (or the State under section 
273l(c)). 
"(b) BUDGETING FOR CAPITAL AND MEDICAL 
EDUCATION EXPENDITURES.-ltems in budgets 
prepared under subsection (a) for capital-re­
lated items and for direct medical education 
shall only be approved if such amounts are 
consistent with the portion of the national 
and State heal th budgets established under 
subsections (c) and (d) of section 2732. 
"(c) MODIFICATION OF THE PROSPECTIVE 
PAYMENT ASSESSMENT COMMISSION.-The 
Prospective Payment Assessment Commis­
sion, instead of conducting activities de­
scribed in section 1886 of the Social Security 
Act, shall advise the Secretary concerning 
the approval of budgets under this section 
and shall annually prepare and submit to the 
Congress and the Secretary a report contain­
ing the recommendations of the Commission 
concerning-
"(l) the most appropriate manner in which 
the budget approval process should be modi-
fied to best meet the objectives of this title; 
and 
"(2) global budgets and fee schedules estab­
lished under section 2723 for the payment of 
facility-based outpatient services. 
"SEC. 2722. PAYMENTS FOR OTHER FACILITY· 
BASED SERVICES. 
"(a) IN GENERAL.-Payment under this 
title for home health services, hospice care, 
home and community-based services, and fa­
cility-based outpatient services (other than 
those described in section 2721) shall be based 
on-
"(l) a budget (of the type described in sec­
tion 272l(a)(l)) for the facility that is submit­
ted to, and approved by, the Secretary (or 
State under section 273l(c)) in a form and 
manner specified by the Secretary; 
"(2) a fee schedule established by the Sec­
retary; 
"(3) a capitation payment schedule that is 
submitted to, and approved by, the Secretary 
(or State under section 273l(c); or 
"(4) an alternative prospective payment 
method that is submitted to, and approved 
by, the Secretary (or State under section 
273l(c)), 
as selected by the facility for each reim­
bursement period and approved by the Sec­
retary (or State under section 273l(c)). Such 
payments shall not include payments for 
capital-related items, except as provided in 
subsection (b). 
"(b) CONSIDERATION IN ESTABLISHMENT OF 
FEE SCHEDULES, ETC.-A fee schedule, capita­
tion schedule or alternative prospective pay­
ment method established under subsection 
(a)(2) for facility-based O\ltpatient services 
shall-
"(l) take into account the payment 
amounts established under section 2723 for 
any related professional services; and 
"(2) provide an amount for capital-related 
costs if the costs are consistent with the na­
tional and State capital budgets established 
under section 2732(c), but only in the case of 
services either-
"(A) for which payment of a facility-relat­
ed component is provided under title XVIII 
of the Social Security Act; or 
"(B) for which the Secretary determines 
that such a component is appropriate to as­
sure access to outpatient services in appro­
priate facilities. 
"(c) LIMIT ON PAYMENT FOR HOME AND COM­
MUNITY-BASED SERVICES.-Payments under 
this title for home and community-based 
services with respect to any individual may 
not exceed 65 percent of the average amount 
of payment that would have been made for 
the individual if the individual were a resi­
dent of a nursing facility in the same area in 
which the services are provided. 
"(d) LONG-TERM CARE PAYMENT REVIEW 
COMMISSION-
" (l) ESTABLISHMENT.-
"(A) IN GENERAL.-The Director of the Con­
gressional Office of Technology Assessment 
shall provide for the appointment of a Long­
Term Care Payment Review Commission 
(hereafter referred to in this subsection as 
the 'Commission') to be composed of individ­
uals with national recognition for their ex­
pertise in health care economics and related 
fields for nursing facility services, home 
health services, hospice care, and home and 
community-based services. 
"(B) APPOINTMENTS.-Members of the Com­
mission shall first be appointed not later 
than January 1, 1993, for a term of 3 years, 
except that the Director may provide ini­
tially for such shorter terms as will insure 
that (on a continuing basis) the terms of no 
more than one-third of the number of mem-
bers expire in any year. Appointments shall 
be made without regard to the provisions of 
title 5, United States Code, governing ap­
pointments in the competitive service. 
"(C) MEMBERSHIP.-Members of the Com­
mission shall include health care econo­
mists, representatives of providers and man­
ufacturers of such services, and consumers of 
such services. 
"(2) FUNCTIONS.-The Commission shall ad­
vise the Secretary concerning the payment 
amounts for long-term care established 
under section 2721 and this section and shall 
annually prepare and submit to Congress and 
the Secretary an annual report containing 
the recommendations of the Commission 
concerning the manner in which global budg­
ets and fee schedules should be modified to 
best meet the objectives of this title. 
"(e) ENSURING THE PROVISION OF OPERATING 
FUNDS.-ln determining the rate of reim­
bursement under this section, and in devel­
oping and implementing a payment system 
for providers, the Secretary (or the State in 
accordance with section 273l(c)) shall permit 
a reasonable, fixed rate of return, independ­
ent of those operating expenses necessary to 
fulfill the objectives of this title. The Sec­
retary (or the State in accordance with sec­
tion 273l(c)) shall ensure .that no portion of 
payments received under this section, in ex­
cess of that portion attributable to such rea­
sonable rate of return, shall be diverted to 
profits. 
"SEC. 2723. PAYMENTS FOR SERVICES OF HEALTH 
CARE PROFESSIONALS. 
"(a) IN GENERAL.-Payment under this 
title for the services of health care profes­
sionals shall be based on a fee schedule es­
tablished by the Secretary. 
"(b) USE OF NATIONAL RELATIVE VALUE 
SCALE.-Such schedule shall-
"(l) vary the payment amount among dif­
ferent services based on the relative value of 
the input factors to provide the services; 
"(2) vary among different areas, for the 
portion of the payment relating to the goods 
and services provided, based on reasonable 
differences in the prices for goods and serv­
ices among the different areas; and 
"(3) be consistent with the national health 
budget established by the Secretary. 
In establishing such schedule, the Secretary 
shall take into account the fee schedules es­
tablished under section 1848 of the Social Se­
curity Act, without regard to the update fac­
tor provided under that section. 
"(c) MODIFICATION OF THE PHYSICIAN PAY­
MENT REVIEW COMMISSION.-
"(l) REDESIGNATION.-The Commission es­
tablished under section 1845 of the Social Se­
curity Act is renamed the 'Professional Pay­
ment Review Commission' (hereafter re­
ferred to in this subsection as the 'Commis­
sion') and is continued for purposes of carry­
ing out this subsection. 
"(2) ADDITIONAL MEMBERS.-The Director of 
the Congressional Office of Technology As­
sessment shall increase the membership of 
the Commission to such number as may be 
necessary to include the representation of 
nurses and other health care professionals 
whose services are paid for on the basis of a 
relative-value fee schedule established under 
this section, and shall consult with the Phy­
sician Payment Review Commission, the 
General Health Care Review Commission, 
and other appropriate provider organiza­
tions. 
"(3) ALTERNATIVE FUNCTIONS.-The Com­
mission, instead of conducting activities of 
the type described in section 1845 of the So­
cial Security Act, shall advise the Secretary 
concerning the fee schedules established 

--- PDF PAGE 59 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4549 
under this section and shall annually prepare 
and submit to Congress and the Secretary a 
report containing recommendations concern­
ing the manner in which fee schedules should 
be modified to best meet the objectives of 
this title. 
"SEC. 2724. PAYMENTS FOR OTIIER ITEMS AND 
SERVICES. 
"(a) IN GENERAL.-Payment under this 
title for items and services not described in 
section 2723 shall be made on the basis of fee 
schedules established by the Secretary con­
sistent with the national health budget es­
tablished by the Secretary. In establishing 
such schedules, the Secretary shall consult 
with the Commission established under sub­
section (b). 
"(b) GENERAL HEALTH CARE PAYMENT RE­
VIEW COMMISSION.-
"(!) ESTABLISHMENT.-
"(A) IN GENERAL.-The Director of the Con­
gressional Office of Technology Assessment 
shall provide for the appointment of a Gen­
eral Health Care Payment Review Commis­
sion (hereafter referred to in this subsection 
as the 'Commission'), to be composed of indi­
viduals with national recognition for their 
expertise in health care economics and relat­
ed fields for items and services for which 
payment is made under a fee schedule estab­
lished under this section, representatives of 
providers and manufacturers of such items 
and services, and representatives of consum­
ers of these i terns and services. 
"(B) APPOINTMENTS.-Members of the Com­
mission shall first be appointed not later 
than January l, 1993, for a term of 3 years, 
except that the Director may provide ini­
tially for such shorter terms as will insure 
that (on a continuing basis) the terms of no 
more than one-third of the number of mem­
bers expire in any year. Appointments shall 
be rpade without regard to the provisions of 
title 5, United States Code, governing ap­
pointments in the competitive service. 
"(C) MEMBERSHIP.-Membership on the 
Commission shall include health care econo­
mists, representatives of providers and man­
ufacturers of such items and services, and 
representatives of consumers of these items 
and services. 
"(2) FuNCTIONS.-The Commission shall ad­
vise the Secretary concerning the fee sched­
ules established under this section and shall 
annually prepare and submit to Congress and 
the Secretary a report containing rec­
ommendations on the manner in which fee 
schedules should be modified to best meet 
the objectives of this title. 
"SEC. 2725. USE OF FISCAL AGENTS. 
"(a) IN GENERAL.-The Secretary (or the 
State in accordance with section 273l(c)), 
through the use of competitive bidding pro­
cedures, may enter into such contracts with 
qualified entities as the Secretary (or the 
State in accordance with section 273l(c)) de­
termines to be appropriate for the processing 
of claims under this title. The Secretary 
may provide for a process for entering into 
separate contracts under this section for 
claims processing under this title, but in no 
case may more than one contract be entered 
into for any State. 
"(b) FUNCTIONS.-Under contracts entered 
into under this section, the entity with 
which the contract is entered into may carry 
out such functions as are authorized for fis­
cal intermediaries and carriers under title 
XVIII of the Social Security Act as the Sec­
retary (or the State in accordance with sec­
tion 273l(c)) determines to be appropriate. 
"SEC. 2726. MANDATORY ASSIGNMENT. 
"(a) IN GENERAL.-Payments for benefits 
under this title shall constitute payment in 
full for such benefits and the entity furnish­
ing an item or service for which payment is 
made under this title shall accept such pay­
ment as payment in full for the item or serv­
ice and may not accept any payment or im­
pose any charge for any such item or service 
other than accepting payment in accordance 
with this title. 
"(b) ENFORCEMENT.-If an entity know­
ingly and willfully charges an individual for 
an item or service or accepts payment in vio­
lation of subsection (a), the Secretary may 
apply sanctions against the entity in the 
same manner as sanctions could have been 
imposed under section 1842(j)(2) of the Social 
Security Act for a violation of section 
1842(j)(l) of such Act. 
"SEC. 2727. NO PAYMENTS TO MOST FEDERAL 
PROVIDERS OF SERVICES. 
"No payment may be made under this title 
to any Federal provider of services (other 
than such a provider of the Indian Health 
Service and other than such a provider of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs) which the 
Secretary determines is providing services to 
the public generally as a community institu­
tion or agency, and no such payment may be 
made to any provider of services for any 
item or service which such provider is obli­
gated by a law of, or a contract with, the 
United States to render at public expense. 
"SEC. 2728. REPORTING SYSTEMS. 
"(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF SYSTEM.-Not later 
than January 1, 1993, the Secretary shall es­
tablish a system for the reporting, by hos­
pitals and other providers of services under 
this title, of information (including informa­
tion on patient care) sufficient to provide for 
the review and approval of budgets of hos­
pitals, skilled nursing facilities, and other 
facilities under this part and the develop­
ment of fee schedules for services under this 
part. 
"(b) BASIS.-The system established under 
subsection (a) shall be based on the standard­
ized electronic cost reporting format placed 
into effect under section 1886(f)(l)(B) of the 
Social Security Act and the uniform report­
ing standards established under section 
4007(c) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation 
Act of 1987. 
"(c) REQUIREMENT.-Notwithstanding any 
other provision of this title, a hospital or 
other provider of services under this title 
that fails to file reports on a timely basis in 
accordance with the system established 
under this section shall not be eligible for 
payments under this title. 
"SEC. 2729. RURAL AND MEDICALLY UNDER­
SERVED AREAS. 
"In establishing payment procedures for 
providers under this part the Secretary (or 
State under section 2731(c)) shall construct 
such schedules in a manner that would en­
courage providers to practice or locate in 
rural and medically underserved areas. 
"PART D-ADMINISTRATION 
"SEC. 2731. GENERAL PROVISIONS. 
"(a) THROUGH HCFA.-The Secretary, act­
ing through the Administrator of the Health 
Care Financing Administration, shall admin­
ister the program under this title. 
"(b) USE OF STATE-LEVEL OFFICES.-The 
Secretary shall provide for the establish­
ment or designation of an office in each 
State that shall be responsible for the ad­
ministration of this title in that State. 
"(.c) USE OF STATES.-If a State submits a 
request to the Secretary to administer this 
title in that State, the Secretary shall pro­
vide for the State administration of the pro­
visions of this title within that State as the 
Secretary determines appropriate to meet 
the objectives of this title, unless and until 
the State fails to comply with such require­
ments. A State with a request approved 
under this subsection shall have the author­
ity to establish operating budgets, capita­
tion rates or alternative prospective pay­
ment methods for providers in the State. 
Any State administering this title under a 
request approved under this subsection shall 
submit its State budget (including individual 
institutional budgets) to the Secretary to as­
sure compliance with the national health 
budget and this title. 
"SEC. 2732. NATIONAL AND STATE HEALTH BUDG· 
ETS. 
"(a) IN GENERAL.-For each calendar year 
the Secretary shall establish a national 
health budget and, for each State, a State 
health budget that specifies-
"(l) the level and application of expendi­
tures to be made under this title in the year 
in the United States and in the State, re­
spectively; and 
"(2) the amount in and source of revenues 
of the National Health Trust Fund in such 
year. 
Each State health budget established by the 
Secretary under this subsection shall be 
based solely on-
" (A) the population of the State; 
"(B) reasonable differences in the prices 
for goods and services; 
"(C) any special social, environmental, or 
other condition affecting health status or 
the need for health care services; and 
"(D) the geographic distribution of the 
State's population, particularly the propor­
tion of the population residing in rural or 
medically underserved areas. 
"(b) EXPENDITURE LEVEL.-The total level 
of expenditures to be specified in the na­
tional health budget under subsection (a) for 
a year may not exceed the level of expendi­
tures for covered benefits under this title 
made in the year preceding the effective date 
of this title increased in a compounded man­
ner for each succeeding year (up to the year 
involved) by the annual percentage increase 
in the gross national product for the preced­
ing year. 
"(c) INSTITUTIONAL CAPITAL BUDGET.-
"(l) IN . GENERAL.-Each national health 
budget established under subsection (a) shall 
include an amount for total expenditures for 
capital-related items, provide for State cap­
ital budgets and specify the general manner 
in which such expenditures for capital-relat­
ed items are to be distributed among the dif­
ferent types of facilities. 
"(2) F ACTORS.-Each State capital budgj:lt 
under this section shall be established based 
solely on-
"(A) the population of the State; 
"(B) reasonable differences in the prices 
for goods and services, as such differences af­
fect the prices of the appropriate capital 
goods; 
"(C) any special social, environmental, or 
other condition affecting health status or 
the need for heal th care services; and 
"(D) the geographic distribution of the 
State's population, particularly the propor­
tion of the population residing in rural or 
medically underserved areas. 
"(d) HEALTH TRAINING BUDGET.-Each na­
tional health budget established under sub­
section (a) shall include an amount for total 
expenditures for direct medical education ex­
penses for institutions receiving payments 
under budgets approved under section 2721 
and for facility-based outpatient services for 
which payments are made under section 2722. 
Such budgets shall specify the general man­
ner in which such expenditures are to be 

--- PDF PAGE 60 ---
4550 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
taken into account, shall be based on a na­
tional plan for training of medical personnel 
developed by the Secretary that shall em­
phasize training for primary and preventive 
care, and shall provide for State budgets for 
direct medical education expenses. Pay­
ments under such budgets for such expendi­
tures shall take into account the method for 
payment for direct medical education ex­
penses as described in section 1886(h) of the 
Social Security Act. 
"SEC. 2733. NATIONAL HEALTH TRUST FUND. 
"(a) ESTABLISHMENT.-There is hereby cre­
ated on the books of the Treasury of the 
United States a trust fund to be known as 
the 'National Health Trust Fund' (hereafter 
in this section referred to as the 'Trust 
Fund') that shall consist of such gifts and be­
quests as may be made as provided in section 
201(i)(l) of the Social Security Act and such 
amounts as may be deposited in, or appro­
priate to, such fund as provided for in this 
part. 
"(b) APPROPRIATIONS INTO TRUST FUND.­
"(l) TAXES.-There are hereby appro­
priated to the Trust Fund for each fiscal 
year (beginning with fiscal year 1994), out of 
any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, amounts equivalent to 100 per­
cent of-
"(A) the taxes imposed by sections 3101(b), 
3101(c), 3111(b), and 3111(c) of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 with respect to wages 
reported to the Secretary of the Treasury or 
his delegate pursuant to subtitle F of such 
Code after January 1, 1994, as determined by 
the Secretary of the Treasury by applying 
the applicable rates of tax under such sec­
tions to such wages (such wages shall be cer­
tified by the Secretary of Heal th and Human 
Services on the basis of records of wages es­
tablished and maintained by the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services in accordance 
with such reports); 
"(B) the taxes imposed by sections 1401(b) 
and 1401(c) of such Code with respect to self­
employment income reported to the Sec­
retary of the . Treasury on tax returns under 
subtitle F of such Code, as determined by the 
Secretary of the Treasury by applying the 
applicable rates of tax under such sections to 
such self-employment income (such self-em­
ployment income shall be certified by the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services on 
the basis of records of self-employment es­
tablished and maintained by the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services in accordance 
with such returns); and 
"(C) the aggregate increase in tax liabil­
ities under chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 which is attributable to the ap­
plication of the amendments made by sec­
tion 3(a) of the Universal Health Care Act of 
1992. 
The amounts appropriated under the preced­
ing sentence shall be transferred from time 
to time (but not less frequently than month­
ly) from the general fund in the Treasury to 
the Trust Fund, such amounts to be deter­
mined on the basis of estimates by the Sec­
retary of the Treasury of the taxes, specified 
in the preceding sentence, paid to or depos­
ited into the Treasury. Proper adjustments 
shall be made in amounts subsequently 
transferred to the extent prior estimates 
were in excess of or were less than the taxes 
specified in such sentence. 
"(2) STATE FUNDS.-There are hereby ap­
propriated into the Trust Fund such 
amounts as are paid by States under section 
2734. 
"(3) LONG-TERM CARE/HEALTH CARE PRE­
MIUMS.-There are also transferred and de­
posited into the Trust Fund long-term care/ 
health care premiums imposed under section 
3(g) of the Universal Health Care Act of 1992. 
"(c) INCORPORATION OF PROVISIONS.-The 
provisions of subsections (b) through (i) of 
section 1817 of the Social Security Act shall 
apply to the Trust Fund under this title in 
the same manner as they applied to the Fed­
eral Hospital Insurance Trust Fund under 
part A of title XVIII of such Act. 
"(d) INCORPORATION OF OTHER TRUST 
FUNDS.-Any amounts remaining in the Fed­
eral Hospital Insurance Trust Fund or the 
Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance 
Trust Fund after the settlement of claims 
for payments under title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act have been completed, shall be 
transferred into the National Health Trust 
Fund. 
"SEC. 2734. STATE MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT 
PAYMENTS. 
"(a) CONDITION OF COVERAGE.-Notwith­
standing any other provision of this title, no 
individual who is a resident of a State is eli­
gible for benefits under this title for a month 
in a calendar year , unless the State provides 
(in a manner and at a time specified by the 
Secretary) for payment to the National 
Health Trust Fund in the month of the sum 
of-
"(1) the product of $7.083 and the number of 
residents who are residents of the State and 
otherwise eligible for benefits under this 
title in the month; and 
"(2) 85 percent of 1/i2 of the amount speci­
fied in subsection (b) for the year; 
or, if less, 1/1 2 of the limiting amount speci­
fied in subsection (c). 
"(b) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT AMOUNT.­
The amount of payment specified in this sub­
section for a State for a year is equal to the 
amount of payment (net of Federal pay­
ments) made by a State under its State plan 
under title XIX of the Social Security Act 
for the year preceding the effective date of 
this title, increased for the year involved by 
the compounded sum of the percentage in­
crease in the gross national product of the 
State for each year after that year and up to 
the year before the year involved. 
"(c) LIMITING AMOUNT.-For purposes of 
subsection (a), the limiting amount specified 
in this subsection-
"(1) for 1994, is the total amount of pay­
ment made by a State (net of any Federal 
payments made to the State) for health care 
in 1993; or 
"(2) for any subsequent year, is the amount 
specified in this subsection for the State for 
the previous year increased for the year in­
volved by the compounded sum of the per­
centage increase in the gross national prod­
uct of the State for each year after 1992 and 
up to the year before the year involved. 
"SEC. 2735. NATIONAL ADVISORY BOARD. 
"(a) IN GENERAL.-The Director of the Con­
gressional Office of Technology Assessment 
(hereafter in this section referred to as the 
'Director' and the 'Office'. respectively) shall 
provide for the appointment of a National 
Heal th Advisory Board (hereafter in this sec­
tion referred to as the 'Board') to advise the 
Secretary respecting the implementation of 
this title. Members of the Board shall first 
be appointed no later than January 1, 1992, 
for a term of 3 years, except that the Direc­
tor may provide initially for such shorter 
terms as will insure that (on a continuing 
basis) the terms of no more than 7 members 
expire in any year. 
"(b) COMPOSITION.-The Board shall be 
composed of 21 individuals, appointed by the 
Director (without regard to the provisions of 
title 5, United States Code, governing ap­
pointments in the competitive service). Such 
individuals shall include persons with na­
tional recognition for their expertise in 
health and related fields, physicians and 
other health professionals, administrators of 
health care facilities, providers of nonprofes­
sional items and services, health care econo­
mists, and representatives of consumers of 
heal th care. 
"SEC. 2738. STATE ADVISORY BOARDS. 
"(a) APPOINTMENT.-
"(!) IN GENERAL.-For each State. the Sec­
retary (or the Governor, in accordance with 
section 2731(c)) shall provide for appointment 
of a State advisory board (hereafter referred 
to in this section as the 'board') to advise 
the Secretary respecting the implementation 
of this title in the State. 
"(2) BUDGET REVIEW.-Each board shall re­
view. and submit comments to the Secretary 
concerning, budgets of hospitals, nursing fa­
cilities, and other institutional providers in 
the State submitted for approval by the Sec­
retary. Such review shall take into account 
the State health budgets to be established by 
the Secretary under section 2732. 
"(b) COMPOSITION.-Each board shall. be 
composed of 15 individuals, and shall include 
individuals who have expertise in health care 
as well as representatives of consumers, pro­
viders, and the State government. Each 
member shall be appointed for a term of 3 
years, except that members first appointed 
to each such board shall be appointed for 
such shorter terms as will assure (on a con­
tinuing basis) that the terms of no more 
than 5 members expire in any year. 
"(c) CONSULTATION.-Each board shall con­
duct its activities in consultation with the 
Governor of the State involved . 
"PART E-MISCELLANEOUS 
"SEC. 2771. DEFINITIONS. 
"(a) INCORPORATION OF MEDICARE DEFINI­
TIONS.-Except as otherwise provided in' this 
section, the definitions contained in section 
1861 of the Social Security Act (other than 
subsections (v), (y), and (z)) shall apply for 
purposes of this title in the same manner as 
such definitions applied for purposes of title 
XVIII of such Act. 
"(b) ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS.-As used in 
this title: 
"(l) HOME AND COMMUNITY-BASED SERV­
ICES.-The term 'home and community-based 
services' means the services described in 
paragraphs (1) through (9) of section 1929(a) 
of the Social Security Act provided by an en­
tity certified as meeting the applicable 
standards specified in subsections (f), (g); 
and (h) of section 1929 of such Act pursuant 
to a plan of care. 
"(2) NURSING FACILITY SERVICES.-The term 
'nursing facility services' has the meaning 
given the term extended care services in sec­
tion 1861(h) of the Social Security Act if the 
word 'skilled' were omitted throughout. 
"(3) NURSING FACILITY.-The term 'nursing 
facility' has the meaning given such term in 
section 1819(a) of the Social Security Act if 
paragraph (1) of section 1919(a) of such Act 
were substituted for paragraph (1) of that 
section. 
"SEC. 2772. INCORPORATION OF MISCELLANEOUS 
MEDICARE-RELATED PROVISIONS. 
"(a) PROVISIONS IN TITLE XVIII.-The fol­
lowing provisions of the Social Security Act 
shall apply to this title in the same manner 
as they applied to title XVIII of such Act as 
of the date of the enactment of this title: 
"(1) Section 1819 (relating to requirements 
for, and assuring quality of care in, skilled 
nursing facilities), except that-
"(A) any reference in the section to a . 
'skilled nursing facility' is deemed a ref­
erence to a 'nursing facility'; and 

--- PDF PAGE 61 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4551 
"(B) the term 'nursing facility' has the 
meaning given such term in section 1919(a). 
"(2) Section 1846 (relating to intermediate 
sanctions for providers of clinical diagnostic 
laboratory tests). 
"(3) Sections 1863 through 1865 (relating to 
consultation with State agencies and other 
organizations to develop conditions of par­
ticipation for providers of services, use of 
State agencies to determine compliance by 
providers of services with conditions of par­
ticipation, and effect of accreditation). 
"(4)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), sec­
tion 1866 (relating to agreements with pro­
viders of services). 
"(B)(i) The prov1s10ns of section 
1866(a)(l)(N) shall not apply. 
"(ii) Under section 1866(a)(2), a provider of 
services may not impose any charge for cov­
ered items and services under this title. 
"(iii) In the case of a hospital, the provider 
agreement under section 1866 shall prohibit a 
hospital from denying care to any individual 
on any ground other than the hospital's in­
ability to provide the care required. 
"(5) Section 1867 (relating to examination 
and treatment for emergency medical condi­
tions and women in labor). 
"(6) Section 1869 (relating to determina­
tions and appeals). 
"(7) Section · 1870 (relating to overpayment 
on behalf of individuals and settlement of 
claims for benefits on behalf of deceased in­
dividuals). 
"(8) Sections 1871 through 1874 (relating to 
regulations, application of certain provisions 
of title II of the Social Security Act, des­
ignation of organization or publication by 
name, and administration). 
"(9)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), sec­
tion 1876 (relating to payments to health 
maintenance organizations and competitive 
medical plans) shall apply to individuals en­
titled to benefits under this title in the same 
manner as it applies to individuals entitled 
to benefits under part A, and enrolled under 
part B, of title XVIII of the Social Security 
Act. 
"(B) In applying section 1876 under this 
title-
"(i) the provisions of such section relating 
only to individuals enrolled under part B of 
title XVIII of the Social Security Act shall 
not apply; 
"(ii) subject to subparagraph (C), any ref­
erence to a Trust Fund established under 
title XVIII of such Act and to benefits under 
·such title is deemed a reference to the Na­
tional Health Trust Fund and to benefits 
under this title; 
"(iii) subject to subparagraph (C), the ad­
justed average per capita cost and adjusted 
community rate shall be determined on the 
basis of benefits under this title; and 
"(iv) subsection (f) shall not apply. 
"(C) For purposes of subparagraph (B), ben­
efits under this title may, at the option of an 
eligible organization, not include benefits for 
nursing facility services that are not post­
hospital extended care services and benefits 
for home and community-based services. 
"(10) Section 1877 (relating to limitation on 
certain physician referrals). 
"(11) Section 1878 (relating to the provider 
reimbursement review board), except that 
the hearings pursuant to such section shall 
be on the approval of budgets under section 
2721 of this title rather than the determina­
tion of payment amounts under title XVIII 
of the Social Security Act. 
"(12) Section 1891 (relating to conditions of 
participation for home health agencies; 
home health quality). 
"(13) Section 1892 (relating to offset of pay­
ments to individuals to collect past-due obli-
gations arising from breach of scholarship 
and loan contract). 
"(b) TITLE XI PROVISIONS.-The following 
provisions of the Social Security Act shall 
apply to this title in the same manner as 
they applied to title XVIII of such Act: 
"(1) Sections 1124, 1126, and 1128 through 
1128B (relating to fraud and abuse). 
"(2) Section 1134 (relating to nonprofit hos­
pital philanthropy). 
"(3) Section 1138 (relating to hospital pro­
tocols for organ procurement and standards 
for organ procurement agencies). 
"(4) Section 1142 (relating to research on 
outcomes of health care services and proce­
dures), except that any reference in such sec­
tion to a Trust Fund is deemed a reference to 
the National Health Trust Fund. 
"(5) Part B of title XI of the Social Secu­
rity Act (relating to peer review of the utili­
zation and quality of health care services). 
"(c) OTHER PROVISIONS.-The provisions of 
subsections (g) and (i) of section 201 of the 
Social Security Act shall apply to this title 
and the National Health Trust Fund in the 
same manner as they applied to title XVIII 
of such Act and the Federal Hospital Insur­
ance Trust Fund. 
"SEC. 2773. PRIVATE HEALTH INSURANCE. 
"Private insurance for health care services 
may be offered or sold to cover only those 
heal th care benefits not covered under this 
title.". 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.-
(1) Sections 2701 through 2714 of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300cc through 
300cc-15) are redesignated as sections 2801 
through 2814, respectively. 
(2) Sections 465(f) and 497 of such Act (42 
U.S.C. 286(f) and 289(f)) are amended by strik­
ing out "2701" each place that such appears 
and inserting in lieu thereof "2801". 
SEC. 3. FINANCING. 
(a) INCREASE IN TOP CORPORATE INCOME 
TAXRATE.-
(1) IN GENERAL.-subparagraph (C) of sec­
tion l(b)(l) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 (relating to tax imposed on corpora­
tions) is amended by striking "34 percent" 
and inserting "38 percent". 
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.-The amendment 
made by this subsection shall apply to tax­
able years beginning after December 31, 1995. 
(b) INCREASE IN INDIVIDUAL INCOME 
TAXES.-
(1) IN GENERAL.-Section 1 of such Code (re­
lating to tax imposed) as amended by strik­
ing subsections (a) through (e) and inserting 
the following: 
"(a) MARRIED INDIVIDUALS FILING JOINT RE­
TURNS AND SURVIVING SPOUSES.-There is 
hereby imposed on the taxable income of-
"(l) every married individual (as defined · in 
section 7703) who makes a single return 
jointly with his spouse under section 6013, 
and 
"(2) every surviving spouse (as defined in 
section 2(a)), a tax determined in accordance 
with the following table: 
"If taxable income is: 
Not over $32,450 ... ...... ... . . 
Over $32,450 but not over 
$78,400. 
Over $78,400 but not over 
$200,000. 
Over $200,000 ................. . . 
The tax is: 
15% of taxable income. 
$4,867.50, plus 30% of the 
excess over $32,450. 
$18,652.50, plus 34% of the 
excess over $78,400. 
$59,996.50 plus 38% of the 
excess over $200,000. 
"(b) HEADS OF HOUSEHOLDS.-There is here­
by imposed on the taxable income of every 
head of a household (as defined in section 
2(b)) a tax determined in accordance with the 
following table: 
"If taxable income is: The tax is: 
Not over $26,050 . ........ .. . .. 15% of taxable income. 
"If taxable income is: 
Over $26,050 but not over 
$67,200. 
Over $67,200 but not over 
$171,500. 
Over $171,500 .................. . 
The tax is: 
$3,907.50, plus 30% of the 
excess over $26,500. 
$16,252.50, plus 34% of the 
excess over $67 ,200. 
$51,714.50, plus 38% of the 
excess over $171,500. 
"(c) UNMARRIED INDIVIDUALS (OTHER THAN 
SURVIVING SPOUSES AND HEADS OF HOUSE-
HOLDS).-There is hereby imposed on the tax­
able income of every individual (other than a 
surviving spouse as defined in section 2(a) or 
the head of a household as defined in section 
2(b)) who is not a married individual (as de­
fined in section 770) a tax determined in ac­
cordance with the following table: 
"If taxable income is: 
Not over $19,450 ............. . 
Over $19,450 but not over 
$47,050. 
Over $47,050 but not over 
$120,000. 
Over $120,000 ...... ............ . 
The tax is: 
15% of taxable income. 
$2,917.50, plus 30% of the 
excess over $19,450. 
$11,197.50, plus 34% of the 
excess over $47,050. 
$36,000.50, plus 38% of the 
excess over $120,000. 
"(d) MARRIED INDIVIDUALS FILING SEPA­
RATE RETURNS.-There is hereby imposed on 
the taxable income of every married individ­
ual (as defined in section 7703) who does not 
make a single return jointly with his spouse 
under section 6013, a tax determined in ac­
cordance with the following table: 
"If taxable income is: 
Not over $16,225 .......... .. . . 
Over $16,225 but not over 
$39,200. 
Over $39,200 but not over 
$100,000. 
Over $100,000 .......... ..... : .. . 
The tax is: 
15% of taxable income. 
$2,433.75, plus 30% of the 
excess over $16,225. 
$9,326.25, plus 34% of the 
excess over $39,200. 
$29,998.25, plus 38% of the 
excess over $100,000. 
"(e) ESTATES AND TRUSTS.-There is hereby 
imposed on the taxable income of-
"(1) every estate, and 
"(2) every trust, 
taxable under this subsection a tax deter­
mined in accordance with the following 
table: 
"If taxable income is: 
Not over $5,450 ............... . 
Over $5,450 but not over 
$14,150. 
Over $14,150 but not over 
$25,000. 
Over $25,000 .................... . 
The tax is: 
15% of taxable income. 
$817.50, plus 30% of the 
excess over $5,450. 
$3,427.50, plus 34% of the 
excess over $14,150. 
$7,116.50, plus 38% of the 
excess over $25,000.". 
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.-The amendment 
made by this subsection shall apply to tax­
able years beginning after December 31, 1995. 
(C) INCREASE IN EMPLOYER HOSPITAL INSUR­
ANCE TAX; REPEAL OF DOLLAR LIMITATION ON 
AMOUNT OF WAGES SUBJECT TO EMPLOYEE 
AND EMPLOYER HOSPITAL INSURANCE TAXES.-
(1) EMPLOYEE TAX.-Subsection (b) of sec­
tion 3101 of such Code is amended by striking 
"equal to" and all that follows and inserting 
"equal to 1.45 percent of the wages (as de­
fined in section 3121(a) without regard to 
paragraph (1) thereof) received by him with 
respect to employment (as defined in section 
3121(b)).". 
(2) EMPLOYER TAX.-Subsection (b) of sec­
tion 3111 of such Code is amended by striking 
"equal to" and all that follows and inserting 
"equal to 7.5 percent of the wages (as defined 
in section 3121(a) without regard to para­
graph (1) thereof) paid by him with respect 
to employment (as defined in section 
3121(b)).". 
(3) SELF-EMPLOYMENT TAX.-Subsection (b) 
of section 1401 of such Code is amended by 
striking "a tax as follows:" and all that fol­
lows and inserting "a tax equal to 7.5 percent 
of the amount of the self-employment in­
come (as defined in section 1402(b) without 
regard to paragraph (1) thereof) for such tax­
able year.". 
(4) RAILROAD RETIREMENT TAXES.-Subpara­
graph (A) of section 3231(e)(2) of such Code is 

--- PDF PAGE 62 ---
4552 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
amended by adding at the end thereof the 
following new clause: 
"(iii) LIMITATION NOT TO APPLY TO TAXES 
EQUIVALENT TO HOSPITAL INSURANCE TAXES.­
Clause (i) shall not apply t~ 
"(I) so much of the rate applicable under 
section 3201(a) or 3221(a) (as the case may be) 
as does not exceed the rate of tax in effect 
under section 3101(b), and 
"(II) so much of the rate of tax applicable 
under section 3211(a)(l) as does not exceed 
the rate of tax in effect under section 
1401(b).". 
(5) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.-
(A) Subsection (b) of section 1402 of such 
Code is amended by striking "the applicable 
contribution base (as determined under sub­
section (k))" and inserting "the contribution 
and benefit base (as determined under sec­
tion 230 of the Social Security Act)". 
(B) Section 1402 of such Code is amended by 
striking subsection (k). 
(C) Paragraph (1) of section 3121(a) of such 
Code is amended-
(i) by striking "applicable contribution 
base (as determined under subsection (x))" 
each place it appears and inserting "con ­
tribution and benefit base (as determined 
under section 230 of the Social Security 
Act)", and 
(ii) by striking "such applicable contribu­
tion base" and inserting "such contribution 
and benefit base" . 
(D) Section 3121 of such Code is amended 
by striking subsection (x). 
(E) Clause (i) of section 3231(e)(2)(B) of such 
Code is amended to read as follows: 
"(i) TIER 1 TAXES.-Except as provided in 
clause (ii), the term 'applicable base' means 
for any calendar year the contribution and 
benefit base determined under section 230 of 
the Social Security Act for such calendar 
year.". 
(F) Paragraph (3) of section 6413(c) of such 
Code is amended to read as follows: 
"(3) SEPARATE APPLICATION FOR HOSPITAL 
INSURANCE TAXES.-Paragraphs (1) and (2) 
shall not apply t~ 
"(A) the tax imposed by section 3101(b) (or 
any amount equivalent to such tax), and 
"(B) so much of the tax imposed by section 
3201 as is determined at a rate not greater 
than the rate in effect under section 
3101(b).". 
(G) Sections 3122 and 3125 of such Code are 
each amended-
(i) by striking "section 3111" each place it 
appears and inserting " section 3111(a)", and 
(ii) by striking "applicable contribution 
base limitation" and inserting "contribution 
and benefit base limitation". 
(6) EFFECTIVE DATE.-The amendments 
made by this subsection shall apply to 1995 
and later calendar years. 
(d) ADDITIONAL STATE AND LOCAL EMPLOY­
EES SUBJECT TO HOSPITAL INSURANCE TAX.­
(1) IN GENERAL.-Paragraph (2) of section 
3121(u) of such Code is amended by striking 
subparagraphs (C) and (D). 
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.-The amendment 
made by this subsection shall apply to remu­
neration paid after December 31, 1994. 
(e) INCREASE IN INCOME TAXES ON SOCIAL 
SECURITY BENEFITS.-
(1) INCREASE IN AMOUNT OF BENEFITS TAKEN 
INTO ACCOUNT.-Subsections (a) and (b) of 
section 86 of such Code is amended by strik­
ing "one-half' each place it appears and in­
serting "85 percent". 
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.-The amendment 
made by this subsection shall apply to tax­
able years beginning after December 31, 1994. 
(f) SECTION 15 NOT To APPLY.-No amend ­
ment made by this section shall be treated 
as a change in a rate of tax for purposes of 
section 15 of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986. 
(g) LONG-TERM CARE/HEALTH CARE PRE­
MIUM FOR THE ELDERLY.-
(1) IN GENERAL.-Except as provided in 
paragraph (2), each individual who at any 
time in a month is 65 years of age or older 
and is eligible for benefits under title XXVII 
of the Public Heal th Service Act in the 
month shall pay a long -term care /health care 
premium for the month of $55. 
(2) EXCEPTION FOR LOW-INCOME ELDERLY.­
The Secretary of Health and Human Services 
shall provide a process whereby individuals 
with an adjusted gross income which does 
not exceed $8,500 (or $10,700 in the case of 
joint adjusted gross income in the case of a 
married individual) are not liable for the 
premium imposed under paragraph (1). 
(3) COLLECTION OF PREMIUM.-The premium 
imposed under this subsection shall be col­
lected in the same manner (including deduc­
tion from Social Security checks) as the pre­
mium imposed under part B of title XVIII of 
the Social Security Act was collected under 
section 1840 of such Act as of the date of the 
enactment of this Act. 
(4) DEPOSIT INTO NATIONAL HEALTH TRUST 
FUND.-Premiums collected under this sub­
section shall be transferred to and deposited 
into the National Health Trust Fund in the 
same manner as premiums collected under 
section 1840 of the Social Security Act were 
transferred and deposited into the Federal 
Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust 
Fund. 
(h) SENSE OF THE SENATE.-lt is the sense 
of the Senate that the chairman of the Com­
mittee on Finance of the Senate should rec­
ommend to the Senate additional provisions 
with respect to the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 that may be necessary to assist in meet­
ing the funding requirements of this Act . 
SEC. 4. TERMINATION OF OTHER PROGRAMS. 
(a) MEDICARE.-
(1) IN GENERAL.- Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, no benefits shall be 
available under title XVIII of the Social Se­
curity Act for any item or service furnished 
after December 31, 1994. 
(2) TRANSITION.-ln the case of inpatient 
hospital services and extended care services 
during a continuous period of stay which 
began before January 1, 1995, and which had 
not ended as of such date, the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services shall provide for 
continuation of benefits under title XVIII of 
the Social Security Act until the end of the 
period of stay. 
(b) MEDICAID.-No payments shall be made 
to a State under section 1903(a) of the Social 
Security Act with respect to medical assist­
ance for i terns or services furnished after De­
cember 31, 1994. 
(C) FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS 
PROGRAM.-No benefits shall be made avail­
able under chapter 89 of title 5, United 
States Code, for any· part of a coverage pe­
riod occurring after December 31, 1994. 
(d) CHAMPUS.-No benefits shall be made 
available under sections 1079 and 1086 of title 
10, United States Code, for items or services 
furnished after December 31, 1994, for which 
any payment may be made under title XXVII 
of the Public Health Service Act . 
(e) VETERANS' BENEFITS.-No benefits shall 
be available under chapter 17 of title 38, 
United States Code, for items or.services fur­
nished after December 31, 1994, for which 
payment may be made under title XXVII of 
the Public Health Service Act, except that 
nothing in this subsection may be construed 
to decrease benefits or services, including ex-
elusive use of veterans hospitals, that are 
available to veterans on the day prior to the 
date of enactment of this Act. 
SEC. 5. EFFECTIVE DATE FOR BENEFITS. 
Title XXVII of the Public Health Service 
Act shall apply to items and services fur­
nished on or after January 1, 1995. 
By Mr. AKAKA (for himself, Mr. 
HEFLIN , Mr. JOHNSTON, Mr. 
WALLOP, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. 
MURKOWSKI, Mr. FORD, Mr. 
GARN, Mr. INOUYE, Mr. SHELBY, 
Mr. BINGAMAN, Mr. GRAHAM, 
and Mr. EXON): 
S. 2321. A bill to increase the author­
izations for the War in the Pacific Na­
tional Historical Park, Guam, and the 
American Memorial Park, Saipan, and 
for other purposes; to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources. 
ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR THE AMERICAN MEMO-
RIAL PARK AND THE WAR IN THE PACIFIC PARK 
• Mr. AKAKA. Mr. President, the sum­
mer of 1994 will mark the 50th anniver­
sary of the capture of the Marianas Is­
lands and the liberation of Guam, sites 
of two of the largest land battles of the 
Pacific campaign on what is now Unit­
ed States territory. Nearly 6,000 U.S. 
soldiers and civilians gave their lives 
in this conflict. 
Today I am introducing legislation, 
along with Senators HEFLIN, JOHNSTON, 
WALLOP, MITCHELL, MURKOWSKI, FORD, 
GARN, INOUYE, SHELBY, BINGAMAN, GRA­
HAM, and EXON to ensure that appro­
priate facilities are established at the 
two national historical parks in the 
Pacific which commemorate the sac­
rifices of United States Armed Forces 
during World War II. With these facili­
ties in place, we will have an appro­
priate site to stage ceremonies in the 
summer of 1994 honoring the brave sol­
diers who achieved victory as well as 
provide a lasting remembrance of these 
events for years to come. 
Mr. President, in the publicity sur­
rounding the activities at Pearl Harbor 
last December 7, we have perhaps over­
looked another important semi­
centenary that will occur less than 3 
years hence. In the summer of 1994, we 
will commemorate the 50th anni ver­
sary of the liberation of Guam and the 
capture of the Marianas Islands, in­
cluding Saipan and Tinian, from Japa­
nese forces during the latter stages of 
World War II. These dearly bought vic­
tories, in which thousands of soldiers 
and civilians on both sides gave their 
lives, are representative of the island ­
hopping campaign which characterized 
the unique, ferocious war in the Pacific 
theater, and which led to the eviction 
of enemy forces from strategic island 
groups in the Central and Southwest 
Pacific and, eventually, to the surren­
der of Japan. 
Unfortunately, Mr. President, despite 
the significance of the Mariannas cam­
paign, and in spite of the river of blood 
spilled there by American servicemen, 
Congress has provided only minimal 
funding to establish and maintain 
• • - T ·• • ) ' • • • -. • ' '• • • • 

--- PDF PAGE 63 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4553 
these historic battlesites. As a con­
sequence of our neglect, these national 
historical parks have been in a state of 
continuous disrepair. Rust corrodes the 
tanks and cannon that are on public 
display; weeds and grasses cover roads, 
walkways, and fences; historic battle­
fields are disappearing under dirt and 
vegetation; and graffiti mars visitor 
signs and the walls of the few existing 
park buildings. 
These are national parks that osten­
sibly honor the memory of the approxi­
mately 5,700 United States troops 
killed or missing and the 21,900 wound­
ed in the Marianas campaign, men like 
our own distinguished colleague from 
Alabama, Senator HEFLIN, who partici­
pated in these operations. Their fami­
lies and descendants, as well as the 
thousands of marines and soldiers who 
survived unscathed, for whom the 
words Saipan, Tinian, and Guam are 
synonymous with courage, duty , and 
sacrifice, live in every corner of our 
Nation. Each of us probably has many 
constituents whose lives were directly 
affected by the fight to free Guam and 
invade Saipan and Tinian. Thus, each 
of us has a duty to ensure that those 
who fought for freedom on our behalf 
are properly honored-albeit belatedly, 
but honored nonetheless. 
The 50th anniversary of these battles 
will soon be upon us. Unfortunately , 
little has been done to construct the 
facilities necessary for a proper inter­
pretation of these watershed battles of 
the Pacific war. I fear that unless Con­
gress enacts this legislation in the near 
future, the 50th anniversary of these 
battles will come as a grave dis­
appointment to veterans returning to 
these sites just 2 years from now . 
Mr. ~~resident, from now through 
1994, I intend to join several other col­
leagues in a concerted effort to secure 
the funds necessary to render the 
Guam and Saipan parks presentable for 
the 50th anniversary of the Marianas 
campaign. The bill I am introducing 
today will raise the authorized funding 
levels for the American Memorial Park 
in Saipan and the War in the Pacific 
National Historical Park in Guam from 
the current level of $500,000 and $3 mil­
lion, respectively, to $8 million each. 
As such, my legislation is an integral 
part of this effort. If my colleagues be­
lieve that what was worth fighting for 
in the Marianas in 1944 is now also 
worth honoring nearly 50 years later, I 
urge them to cosponsor this bill. If 
they believe that the manner in which 
we treat those who fought and died in 
our behalf is a reflection of our own na­
tional character, then I ask them to 
work with me to see these battlefield 
parks become a lasting memorial to 
the Marianas campaign. 
Thank you, Mr. President. I ask con­
sent that a copy of my bill as well as a 
short precis of the Marianas campaign, 
prepared by Robert Goldich of the Con­
gressional Research Service, be printed 
in the RECORD. 
59--059 0-96 Vol. 138 (Pt. 4) 3 
There being no objection, the mate­
rial was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 
s. 2321 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep­
resentatives of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 
SECTION 1. FINDINGS. 
Congress finds thatr-
(1) June 15 through August 10, 1994, marks 
the 50th anniversary of the Mariana cam­
paign of World War II in which United States 
forces captured the Japanese islands of 
Saipan and Tinian and liberated the United 
States Territory of Guam from Japan; 
(2) an attack during this campaign by the 
Japanese combined fleet, aimed at annihilat­
ing the United States forces that had landed 
on Saipan, led to the battle of the Philippine 
Sea, which resulted in a crushing defeat for 
the Japanese by United States naval forces 
and the destruction of the effectiveness of 
the Japanese carrier-based airpower; 
· (3) the recapture of Guam liberated one of 
the few pieces of United States territory 
that was occupied by the enemy during 
World War II and restored United States 
Government to more than 20,000 native Gua­
manians; 
(4) units of the United States Army, Navy, 
Marine Corps, and Coast Guard fought with 
great bravery and sacrifice , suffering casual­
ties of approximately 5,700 killed and miss­
ing and 21,900 wounded in action; 
(5) United States forces succeeded in de­
stroying all Japanese garrisons in Saipan, 
Tinian , and Guam , which resulted in Japa­
nese military casualties of 54,000 dead and 
21,900 taken prisoner; 
(6) Guamanians, notably members of the 
Navy Insular Force Guard and volunteer mi­
litia , bravely resisted the invasion and occu­
pation of their island, and ultimately as­
sisted in the expulsion of Japanese forces 
from Guam; 
(7) at the hands of the Japanese , the people 
ofGuam-
(A) wete forcibly removed from their 
homes; 
(B) were relocated to remote sections of 
the island; 
(C) were required to perform forced labor 
and faced other harsh treatment, injustices , 
and death; and 
(D) were eventually placed in concentra ­
tion camps and subjected to retribution 
when the liberation of their island became 
apparent to the Japanese; 
(8) the seizure of the Mariana Islands sev­
ered Japanese lines of communication be­
tween Japan proper and those remaining 
Japanese bases and forces in the Central Pa­
cific south of the Mariana Islands and in the 
South Pacific as well; 
(9) the Mariana Islands provided large is­
land areas on which advance bases could be 
constructed to support further operations 
against Japanese possessions and conquered 
territories such as Iwo Jima and Okinawa, 
the Philippines, Taiwan, and the south China 
coast, and ultimately against the Japanese 
home islands; 
(10) the Mariana Islands provided, for the 
first time during the war, island air bases 
from which United States land-based air­
power could reach Japan itself; and 
(11) the air offensive staged from the Mari­
ana Islands against Japanese cities and eco­
nomic infrastructure helped shorten the war 
and vitiate the need for the invasion and 
capture of the Japanese home islands. 
SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS. 
It is the sense of Congress that.-
(1) an appropriate commemoration of the 
50th anniversary of the Mariana campaign 
should be planned; and 
(2) the Secretary of the Interior should 
take all necessary steps to ensure that two 
visitors centers to provide appropriate facili­
ties for the interpretation of the events de­
scribed in section 1 are completed, one at the 
War in the Pacific National Historical Park 
and one at the American Memorial Park, be­
fore June 15, 1994, the beginning of the 50th 
anniversary of the campaign. 
SEC. 3. WAR IN THE PACIFIC NATIONAL HISTORI­
CAL PARK. 
Section 6(k) of the Act entitled " An Act to 
authorize appropriations for certain insular 
areas of the United States, and for other pur­
poses ", approved August 18, 1978 (92 Stat. 493; 
16 U.S .C. 410dd(k)), is amended by striking 
"$500,000" and inserting "$8,000,000". 
SEC. 4. AMERICAN MEMORIAL PARK. 
Section 5(g) of the Act entitled " An Act to 
authorize appropriations for certain insular 
areas of the United States , and for other pur­
poses " , approved August 18, 1978 (92 Stat . 
492), is amended by striking " $3,000,000" and 
inserting ''$8,000,000' '. 
[From the Congressional Research Service, 
Oct. 30, 1991) 
THE U.S. SEIZURE OF THE MARIANAS JUNE-­
AUGUST 19441 
(By Robert L. Goldich, Specialist in National 
Defense , Foreign Affairs and National De­
fense Division) 
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY 
Between June 15 and August 10, 1944, U.S. 
forces captured the Japanese islands of 
Saipan and Tinian , and liberated the U.S . 
territory of Guam-all together comprising 
some of the larger Mariana Islands-from the 
Japanese. U.S. casualties totalled approxi­
mately 5,700 killed and missing in action 
(KIA/MIA ) and 21,900 wounded in action 
(WIA). The Japanese garrisons on all three 
islands were virtually annihilated , losing 
54,000 dead and 2,900 prisoners . At the time of 
the ground operations, a major naval bat­
tle- the Battle of the Philippine Sea-was 
fought, which largely eliminated remaining 
Japanese naval airpower as well as sinking 
several major Japanese naval combatants . 
The seizure of the Marianas severed Japa­
nese lines of communication between Japan 
proper and those remaining Japanese bases 
and forces in the Central Pacific south of the 
Marianas and in the South Pacific as well. It 
provided , for the first time, island air bases 
from which U.S. land-based airpower could 
reach Japan itself. It provided large island 
areas on which advance bases could be con­
structed to support further operations 
against Japanese possessions and conquered 
territories such as Iwo Jima and Okinawa, 
the Philippines, Taiwan and the south China 
coast, and ultimately against the Japanese 
home islands. Finally, the recapture of 
Guam liberated one of the few pieces of U.S. 
territory that was actually conquered by the 
enemy during World War II and restored U.S. 
government to over 20,000 native Guama­
nians. 
BACKGROUND 
The Marianas were Spanish possessions 
prior to the Spanish-American War of 1898. 
In the aftermath of that war, the victorious 
United States annexed Guam, and the other 
two islands were sold by Spain to Germany 
in 1899. Japan, which participated in World 
1 See Major Works Consulted, below, for basic 
sources used in preparing this report. 

--- PDF PAGE 64 ---
4554 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
War I on the side of the Allies, captured 
Saipan and Tinian from Germany in 1914 and 
retained control of them after World War I 
ended. 
Planning for the possibility of a U.S.-Japa­
nese conflict became a major preoccupation 
of the U.S. Armed Forces as soon as the 
United States became a major territorial 
power in the Pacific in 1898, with the acquisi­
tion of the Philippines, Guam, American 
Samoa, and Hawaii. It had long been recog­
nized that the Marianas occupied a critical 
strategic location in any contingent naval 
war between the United States and Japan, 
occupying as they do the center of a quad­
rilateral whose defining points are the Japa­
nese home islands, the Philippines, Hawaii, 
and New Guinea. 
There was little doubt, therefore, after the 
swift Japanese advance into the South and 
Central Pacific in 1941-1942 that U.S. forces 
would have to seize the Marianas. The is­
lands were a significant Japanese defensive 
bastion, and their central location, as well as 
their desirability as sites for U.S. bases, 
made it impossible to bypass them. The issue 
was when they could be attacked and taken. 
The Cairo-Tehran Conferences of late 1943, 
held between President Franklin D. Roo ­
sevelt, British Prime Minister Churchill, and 
Soviet leader Joseph Stalin, resulted in a 
planning schedule for invasion of the Mari­
anas on October 1, 1944. 
However, several U.S. Pacific victories en­
abled this schedule to be advanced by several 
months. Between November 1943 and Feb­
ruary 1944 U.S. forces seized key Japanese 
bases in the Gilbert (Tarawa, Makin) and 
Marshall (Kwajalein , Roi-Namur, and Eniwe­
tok) Islands, bringing U.S . bases to within 
slightly over 1,000 miles of the Marianas. It 
was also decided to bypass rather than at­
tack major Japanese strongholds at Truk, in 
the Caroline Islands, sou th of the Marianas . 
Accordingly, in March 1944 the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff ordered that the Marianas attack 
begin on June 15, 1944. The invasion plans fi­
nalized in May 1944 called for Saipan to be 
assaulted on June 15; once Saipan was se­
cure, Tinian, only three miles south of 
Saipan, would b.e seized. Tentatively , Guam 
would be invaded on June 18, 1944, only three 
days after the landings on Saipan. 
SAIPAN 
After the fall of the Marshall Islands in 
February 1944 the Japanese realized that the 
Marianas would almost certainly be the next 
American objective in the Central Pacific. 
Between February and May 1944 the week 
Japanese garrisons on Saipan, Tinian, and 
Guam were heavily reinforced with combat 
troops. U.S. submarines prevented some, but 
not most, Japanese troops and equipment 
sent to the islands from reaching their des­
tination. 
To seize Saipan from an estimated 18,000 
Japanese (31,000 were actually on the island), 
the U.S. had earmarked the 2nd and 4th Ma­
rine divisions. The Army's 27th Infantry Di­
vision was in general reserve for all Mari­
anas operations, but most planning assumed 
it would probably be employed on Saipan. 
The three divisions plus supporting units to­
talled 71,000 Marines and soldiers. The two 
Marine divisions would attack across beach­
es on the southwestern corner of the island. 
Once securely ashore, the 2nd Marine Divi­
sion, on the left (north) would turn north­
wards and conquer northern Saipan, while 
the 4th Marine Division on the right (south) 
would seize the southern third of the island. 
By June 15, 1944, 25,000 Japanese Army and 
6,000 Navy .troops were on Saipan. Those 
beaches deemed suitable by the Japanese for 
a U.S. amphibious landing were heavily for­
tified and mined, and guarded by powerful 
forces . At this stage of the war, Japanese de­
fensive doctrine still stressed defeat of 
American landings on the beach, rather than 
fighting a costly delaying action against the 
Americans once they had landed (as would be 
the case later in the war in the Palau Is­
lands, the Philippines, Iwo Jima, and Oki­
nawa). 
After two days of naval gunfire and aerial 
attacks on the Japanese fortifications and 
troop dispositions, the two Marine divisions 
made their amphibious landing on the 
Saipan beaches on the morning of June 15. 
Despite the preparatory bombardment, it 
soon became apparent that Japanese resist­
ance was formidable. In fact, D-Day on 
Saipan involved some of the heaviest casual­
ties sustained by any U.S. division, Army or 
Marine Corps, in a single day during the en­
tire war. Japanese artillery, mortars, ma­
chine guns, and small arms, fired from well­
fortified positions largely invisible to the 
Marines, took a heavy toll of the assault Ma­
rines. The 2nd Marine Division sustained 
about 1,600 casualties on June 15. This was 
almost as many as it lost on the first day at 
Tarawa, November 20, 1943, more than the 1st 
Marine Division lost on the first day at 
Peleliu on September 15, 1944, and com-
. parable to the number of Marines killed or 
wounded in the 4th and 5th Marine Divisions 
on the first day at Iwo Jima, February 19, 
1945. The 4th Marine Division lost "only" 
900-1,000 men killed or wounded on the first 
day at Saipan. Nonetheless , the Marines 
were on the island to stay, and Japanese 
counterattacks the first night failed to dent 
their beachhead . 
Between June 16 and June 21, the American 
forces seized the southern third of Saipan, 
except for a small pocket of Japanese resist­
ance on the southeastern tip of the island at 
Nafutan Point. The two Marine divisions 
were then reoriented northwards , to attack 
and destroy the formidable Japanese posi­
tions in central Saipan . The Army 's 27th In­
fantry Division was landed to reinforce the 
Marines, largely due to the heavy casualties 
suffered by the Marine divisions . In six days 
of battle, the 2nd Marine Division had sus­
tained 2,500 casualties and the 4th Marine Di­
vision over 3,600. 
Between June 22 and June 30, the three 
U.S. divisions slowly fought their way 
through heavily wooded, hilly areas which 
constituted the heart of Japanese resistance 
on Saipan. The 2nd Marine Division seized 
Mount Tapotchau, the commanding geo­
graphical feature on Saipan , in moving 
roughly Ph miles in eight days; the 27th Di­
vision and the 4th Marine Division gained be­
tween two and five miles through terrain 
with accurate, unpleasant characterizations 
such as Death Valley and Purple Heart 
Ridge. In addition, on the night of 26-27 
June, the Japanese pocketed at Nafutan 
Point broke out in a desperate banzai 
charge , attacking rear areas and artillery 
uni ts and ultimately losing over 550 dead in 
a suicidal assault far behind the front lines 
of the main battle. 
By June 30, the backbone of Japanese re­
sistance in central Saipan had been broken. 
The Japanese withdrew to their final defen­
sive lines in northern Saipan; patrols ranged 
several thousands yards to the front of the 
American lines but found only small groups 
of the enemy. However, the two · Marines di­
visions had paid dearly for their successes. In 
two weeks of combat, the 2nd and 4th Marine 
Divisions had each sustained 4,500 casualties. 
Because 8~90% of all losses were incurred by 
the 6,400 Marines in each division's 27 rifle 
companies-the basic close-in infantry fight­
ing units-these figures indicate that those 
rifle companies had lost almost two-thirds of 
their men since D-Day. Because no Marine 
infantry replacements had yet arrived, Ma­
rines from support units were channeled into 
the infantry to replace casualties. Although 
the Army's 27th Division had not partici­
pated in the costly D-Day landing, it had 
lost almost 1,900 men itself. 
Between July 1 and July 7, the 2nd Marine 
Division was withdrawn from combat, be­
cause the U.S. command wanted it to begin 
preparing for the invasion of Tinian. The 4th 
Marine Division and the 27th Division con­
tinued attacking the Japanese, and pocketed 
those remaining in the northern tip of the is­
land. The last days of the Saipan battle were 
marked by two horrific developments. First, 
early on the morning of July 7, thousands of 
Japanese launched a suicidal mass attack on 
two isolated battalions of the 27th Division. 
"The soldiers fought for their lives as tre­
mendous masses of the enemy flooded into a 
300-yard gap between the battalions, discov­
ered by enemy patrols the night before." 2 
Overrunning the two battalions, the · Japa­
nese charged south into American artillery 
positions; the Americans fired their guns 
pointblank into the Japanese until they ran 
out of ammunition and the numerical weight 
of the Japanese assault was too great . The 
artillerymen then disabled their guns and re­
treated south, where they reached blocking 
positions held by other Army troops and Ma­
rines. The banzai charge cost the two Army 
infantry battalions 400 dead and 500 wounded 
(probably well over 50% of their strength); 
over 4,300 Japanese corpses were counted. 
Second, in the aftermath of the continuing 
advance of the Marines (the Army's 27th Di­
vision was withdrawn into reserve after the 
banzai charge), with virtually all of the is­
land in American hands , the Japanese re­
peated their World War II propensity for sui­
cide rather than surrender. Not only did the 
few remaining Japanese soldiers and sailors 
kill themselves with their weapons as often 
as they would fire on U.S. Marines, but the 
Marines witnessed terrible sights of suicidal 
Japanese civilians . At Marpi Point on the 
northwestern corner of the island, "Hun­
dreds of Japanese civilians, fearful of the 
Americans, committed suicide by jumping 
from the seaside cliffs. Some took their chil­
dren with them. Efforts to stop them fell 
upon ·ears deafened by Japanese propaganda. 
Fortunately, many civilians had previously 
surrendered amicably, entrusting their fate 
to Marine and Army civil affairs officers, 
and were grateful for the care and safety 
found in the internment camps." a 
On July 9, after 25 days of battle, the U.S. 
command declared the island secured, al­
though Japanese stragglers continued to be 
rounded up or killed until the end of the 
war-and for many years thereafter. U.S. 
casualties totalled 3,600 KIA and MIA and 
13,100 WIA. About 2,000 Japanese prisoners 
were taken; the other 29,000 Japanese troops 
on the island were killed. Both U.S. and Jap­
anese leaders tended to agree about the sig­
nificance of the American victory. Marine 
Lt. Gen. Holland M. Smith, commander of 
the Saipan landing force, stated that the 
capture of Saipan was "the decisive battle of 
the Pacific offensive," and that its seizure 
2Henry I. Shaw, Jr., Bernard C. Nalty, and Edwin 
T . Turnbladb . Central Pacific Drive. History of U.S . 
Marine Corps Operations in World War II . Volume 
III. Washington, Historical Branch, G-3 Division, 
Headquarters, U.S. Marine Corps. 1966: 340. 
3Jbid.: 345. 

--- PDF PAGE 65 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4555 
"breached Japan's inner defense line, de­
stroyed the main bastions, and opened the 
way to the home islands." 4 The verdict of 
Japanese Prime Minister Hideki Tojo, whose 
government was soon to fall-partly in re­
sponse to the loss of the Marianas-was more 
succinct: "Hell is on us." 
TIN IAN 
There was never any doubt that Tinian 
would have to be seized by U.S. forces. Only 
three miles south of Saipan, its continued 
possession by the Japanese would have left 
U.S. bases and facilities on the former island 
vulnerable to bombardment and raids. In ad­
dition, Tinian was relatively flat, and there­
fore the best suited of the Marianas for air­
fields from which U.S. long-range bombers 
could strike the Japanese home islands. 
U.S. plans called for the 2nd and 4th Ma­
rine Divisions, after a two-week respite from 
the costly Saipan campaign, to launch an 
amphibious attack against Tinian. In re­
serve, also similar to the Saipan order of 
battle, was the 27th Infantry Division. 
The major problem confronting the U.S. 
command was where on Tinian the assault 
Marines should land. The island has only 
three beaches "worthy of the name." s The 
largest and best-suited for amphibious oper­
ations is on the southwestern corner of the 
island, near Tinian Town, the major "city" 
on the island. A much smaller beach lies di­
rectly across Tinian from the southwestern 
beaches, on the southeastern side of the is­
land. On the far northwestern corner of 
Tinian are two small beaches, one 60 and the 
other 160 yards wide. After great deliberation 
and careful clandestine reconnaissance, the 
Marine and Navy amphibious planners de­
cided to land on the northern beaches, on the 
assumption that the Japanese would not be­
lieve that U.S. forces could support a mas­
sive amphibious assault across such narrow 
beaches. In addition, the northern beaches 
were very close to southern Saipan, easing 
movements of supplies and troops between 
the two islands, and enabling Saipan-based 
U.S. artillery to support the initial U.S. as­
sault. The decision to attack the northern 
beaches was a gamble, because determined 
Japanese opposition, combined with the nar­
rowness of the beaches, could lead to disas­
ter, with the Marines jammed into the 
beaches and unable to move beyond them 
under Japanese fire. 
To maintain the element of tactical sur­
prise, the Marines and other services were 
careful to do nothing which would lead the 
Japanese to believe that the attack would 
come across the northern beaches. Artillery 
and air support, air and ground reconnais­
sance were detected at all areas of Tinian, 
not just the northern beaches. The U.S. deci­
sion was fully justified by events. The Japa­
nese commander of the 8,900 Japanese troops 
on Tinian expected the Americans to come 
across the southwestern beaches, possibly 
the southeastern ones, and had constructed 
fortifications and disposed his troops accord­
ingly. 
U.S. artillery began firing on Tinian only 
five days after the initial landings on 
Saipan, on June 20. On July 12, it was agreed 
that D-Day for Tinian would be July 24. On 
July 23, heavy U.S. artillery bombardments 
and air strikes against targets all over the 
island began, and the assault components of 
the 4th Marine Division boarded landing 
4Qen. Holland M. Smith, USMC (Ret.), and Percy 
Finch. Coral and Brass. New York, Charles Scribner's 
Sons, 1949: 181. 
sshaw, Nalty, and Turnbladh, Central Pacific 
Drive: 358. 
craft for the short journey of a few miles 
from Saipan to Tinian. 
D-Day at Tinian, July 24, was an immense 
contrast to the bloody D-Day on Saipan over 
five weeks earlier. Two regiments of the 4th 
Marine Division landed on the northern 
beaches and rapidly pushed inland against 
light resistance. Marine casualties totalled 
15 dead and 225 wounded, less than a tenth of 
D-Day losses on Saipan. On the night of July 
24-25, a hastily-mounted Japanese counter­
attack was utterly smashed; over 1,200 
counted Japanese dead in front of the 4th 
Marine Division's positions constituting 
fully one-seventh of the entire Japanese 
force on the island. The American decision 
to land on the narrow northern beaches had 
been fully vindicated. 
On July 25-26, the 2nd Marine Division was 
landed and joined the 4th Marine Division in 
a steady drive south. While Japanese resist­
ance was fierce in some places and at some 
times, from the perspective of higher com­
manders the battle went much more smooth­
ly than the conquest of Saipan. By July 31, 
remaining Japanese organized resistance had 
been compressed into a small, thin strip of 
land against the southeastern coast of 
Tinian. After two more days of combat, 
marked by occasional last-ditch banzai 
charges, but mercifully not by the mass sui­
cide of Japanese civilians seen on Saipan, 
Tinian was declared secure on August 1, 1944. 
"A statement like that, however, was a 
sort of partial truth on any Pacific territory 
captured from the Japanese. On Tinian, even 
more than elsewhere, the residue of the 
enemy force was troublesome. Some of the 
Japanese soldiers preferred self-destruction 
to surrender, but the proportion of soldiers 
and civilians that committed suicide was 
smaller than on Saipan. The Japanese sol­
dier that chose to live was a die-hard type, 
able to hide out for months."6 Thus, one 
regiment of the 2nd Marine Division that re­
mained on the island to flush out Japanese 
stragglers lost about 40 killed and 125 wound­
ed between August 1, 1944 and January 1, 
1945, killing 500 Japanese after the official 
"securing" of the island. 
Total U.S. casualties on Tinian totalled 
approximately 300 KIA and 1,600 WIA; al­
though figures vary depending on the sources 
consulted, it appears that all of the 8,900 
Japanese on the island were eventually 
killed except for slightly over 300 prisoners 
taken. The least costly of the three Marianas 
islands battles, Tinian arguably resulted in 
the greatest dividends for the further pros­
ecution of the war, due to its suitability for 
airfield construction to support the strategic 
air offensive against Japan. 
GUAM 
It has originally been planned that U.S. 
forces would assault Guam on June 18, 1944, 
only three days after the initial landings on 
Saipan. However, several developments re­
quired the postponement of the Guam oper­
ation for over a month. First, by June 15 the 
prospects of an approaching naval battle 
with the Japanese-what became the Amer­
ican victory in the Battle of the Philippine 
Sea during June 19-2~forced U.S. naval 
commanders to redeploy their ships away 
from the Marianas to meet the approaching 
Japanese fleet. The Japanese naval threat 
had to be neutralized before the U.S. Navy 
could cover and support a major amphibious 
landing on Guam. Second, the ferocity of 
Japanese resistance on Saipan required the 
commitment of the entire 27th Infantry Divi­
sion, in reserve for the entire Marianas oper-
8 Ibid.: 421. 
ation. Another Army unit-the 77th Infantry 
Division, in Hawaii-would have to be com­
mitted to Guam. Finally, it was not clear 
until early July that the 77th Division, or 
parts of it, would not be needed on Saipan as 
well. All of these factors led to the postpone­
ment of the invasion of Guam until July 21, 
1944. 
In preparing for the liberation of Guam, 
American planners had to take several fac­
tors into account which did not apply to 
Saipan and Tinian. "Guam is the largest is­
land north of the equator between Hawaii 
and the Philippines. With an area of 225 
square miles, it is three times the size of 
Saipan and measures 30 miles long by 4 to 81h 
miles wide. "7 Its size posed both problems 
and opportunities for maneuver, delay, and 
logistical support not found on the smaller 
islands. 
As a U.S. possession, Guam was going to be 
liberated, not conquered by U.S. forces. 
There were about 24,000 native Guamanians 
on the .island in 1944, and the U.S. command 
had to be prepared to provide for the restora­
tion of services and adequate living stand­
ards to people who had remained almost uni­
formly loyal throughout almost three years 
of Japanese occupation: 8 
"Slightly over a hundred were of mixed 
American and Chamorro [native Guamanian] 
parentage and had been jailed as soon as the 
Japanese occupied the island. The rest of the 
population suffered some organized mal­
treatment and abuse in the early days of 
Japanese rule, but this appeared to have 
gradually tapered off. However, rigid food ra­
tioning, forced labor, confiscation of prop­
erty without compensation, exclusion from 
business enterprises, and a score of lesser 
deprivations and humiliations kept the na­
tive population sullen and restive during the 
period of Japanese occupation. In June 1943 
all able-bodied men between the ages of four­
teen and sixty were forced to work for the 
occupation army, and women were ordered 
to replace the men in the fields. After the 
American air raid of 11 June [1944], large 
numbers of natives fled to the hills. Many 
were rounded up by Japanese military police 
and placed in camps * * * The Guamanians 
were clearly poor raw material for collabora­
tionism, and there is no evidence that the 
Japanese made any successful attempt to re­
construct them to that end." 
As was the case with Saipan and Tinian, 
the Japanese did not begin preparing to de­
fend Guam against American assault until 
February-March 1944, after the fall of the 
Marshall Islands. Japanese defensive prep­
arations were not as extensive as those on 
Saipan-certainly not in proportion to the 
size of the island. By late July 1944, the 
Guam garrison totalled about 18,500 Japa­
nese troops, compared to the 30,000 that had 
been on Saipan. Unfortunately for the Ma­
rines making the assault landings on Guam, 
however, the terrain of the island-the loca­
tions of suitable beaches, harbors, and air­
fields-limited American options. Further­
more, having invaded the island themselves 
in December 1941, the Japanese had studied 
Guam from the point of view of likely objec­
tives for an amphibious assault. When the 
Marines came ashore, therefore, they would 
do so into the heart of Japanese defensive 
positions fortifications, and troops on Guam. 
All of the beaches to be attacked were on 
the western side of Guam. Those beaclles 
7 1bid .: 439. 
BPhilip A. Crowl. Campaign in the Marianas. The 
War in the Pacific. United States Army in World 
War II . Washington, Office of the Chief of M111tary 
History, Department of the Army, 1960: 332. 

--- PDF PAGE 66 ---
4556 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
north of the Orate Peninsula, which jutted 
out into the ocean in a western direction 
from the center of western Guam, would . be 
the objectives of the 3rd Marine Division. 
The 1st Provisional Marine Brigade, com­
posed of two Marine infantry regiments and 
supporting arms and services, and therefore 
consisting of the equivalent of % of .a divi­
sion (a Marine division having three infantry 
regiments at full strength), would attack the 
beaches south of the peninsula. 
The D-Day air and naval bombardment of 
the Guam beaches was both heavier and 
more precise than that directed against the 
Saipan beaches, due to the disappointing re­
sults of the Saipan bombardment and the 
heavy losses the Marines sustained on 
Saipan D-Day. However, the Japanese on 
both the northern beaches (being attacked 
by the 3rd Marine Division) and the southern 
beaches (the 1st Marine Brig·ade) still had 
plenty of fight left in them when the first 
amphibious assault vehicles headed for the 
shore the morning of July 21, 1944. 
Resistance was heaviest on the left flank 
and the center of the 3rd Marine Division's 
attack zone. Here the Marines had to attack 
up steep cliffs that rose just behind the 
beaches-cliffs that included many caves 
which proved impervious to the preassault 
air and naval bombardment. Nonetheless, by 
the end of D-Day the 3rd Marine Division 
was ashore all along the line at the cost of 
about 160 Marines KIA and MIA and 540 WIA. 
Supplies and supporting artillery were 
ashore, and the troops of the 3rd Marine Di­
vision began bracing themselves for the 
usual Japanese counterattack. 
Resistance was less intense, but still sub­
stantial, on the southern beaches. Although 
the 1st Marine Brigade was not facing the 
cliffs and caves of the 3rd Marine Division , 
numerous Japanese defenders made its task 
a difficult one. Japanese artillery and mor ­
tars infll cted many casual ties on the beach­
es, and the art illery fire continued as brigade 
troops moved inland. However , by early 
evening the two Marine regiments of the bri­
gade were ashore at the cost of about 350 Ma­
rine casualties, and one of the three regi­
ments of the Army's 77th Infantry Division, 
as well as both Marine and Army artillery, 
was ashore by the early morning of July 22. 
Surprisingl y, it was the southern beach­
head that was hit by a full-scale Japanese 
counterattack on the night of July 21-22, not 
the more vulnerable positions of the 3rd Ma­
rine Division in the north . By dawn of July 
22, the 1st Marine Brigade had killed over 600 
Japanese at the cost of about 50 dead and 100 
wounded of its own , and virtually annihi­
lated an attacking Japanese regiment. 
Between July 22 and July 24 the 1st Marine 
Brigade turned north , reinforced eventually 
by the entire 77th Infantry Division, and 
sealed off the Orate Peninsula, which sepa­
rated the northern and southern beachheads. 
At the same time, the 3rd Marine Division 
gained very little ground due to extremely 
rough terrain and fierce Japanese resistance. 
By the close of July 24, the first four days of 
battle on Guam had cost the Marine brigade 
220 KIA and MIA and 700 WIA. The 3rd Ma­
rine Division had lost over 400 KIA and MIA 
and almost 1,300 WIA. 
By the evening of July 25, the 3rd Marine 
Division was in bad shape. It had sustained 
almost two thousand battle casualties since 
landing on Guam; "the division lines had 
been stretched more than 9,000 yards. The 
regiments and battalions bad almost no re­
serves to call on, and even [the] division had 
only one depleted battalion in reserve . 
Should the enemy choose this time and place 
for an organized counterattack, the situa­
tion for the Marines could hardly have been 
worse. Unfortunately, the Japanese did so 
choose .'' 9 
During the night of July 25-26, the equiva­
lent of two-thirds of a Japanese division 
struck the lines of the 3rd Marine Division in 
a characteristic banzai charge. At the same 
time , a smaller Japanese counterattack was 
launched from the Orate Peninsula against 
the 1st Marine Brigade. Although the fight­
ing was heavy, and seesawed back and forth 
in the 3rd Marine Division sector, by the 
morning of July 26 the Japanese attackers 
had been virtually annihilated. An estimated 
3,500 Japanese were killed on Guam during 
the few hours of the counterattack . This 
Japanese failure "broke the back" of Japa­
nese resistance on Guam, as the Japanese 
commander acknowledged in radio messages 
to Tokyo. 
The rest of the battle for Guam consisted 
of two main actions. Between July 25 and 
July 30 the 1st Marine Brigade captured the 
Orate Peninsula from 'stubborn Japanese de­
fenders who , cut off from their fellows on the 
rest of the island, nonetheless went down 
fighting, losing over 1,600 dead (compared to 
150 Marine KIA and MIA and 720 WIA) in the 
process. Simultaneously, the 3rd Marine Di­
vision and the Army 's 77th Infantry Division, 
committed as a full division for the first 
time. swung to their left and drove toward 
the northern end of Guam. Once 77th Divi­
sion reconnaissance patrols had determined 
that there were no substantial Japanese 
forces in southern Guam, both American di­
visions attacked northwards. By August 10, 
1944, the island had been secured, although 
stragglers continued to surrender - or be 
killed-until the end of the war, and some 
did not come out of the jungles until the 
1960s and 1970s. U.S. casualties on Guam to­
talled 1,900 KIA/MIA and 7,100 wounded; al­
though precise figures vary, it appears that 
with the exception of about 500 prisoners, the 
entire Japanese garrison of 18,500 was killed 
or died. 
CONCLUDING OBSERVATIONS 
The successful capture of Saipan and 
Tinian, and the liberation of Guam, rep­
resented the maturation of U.S. amphibious 
warfare doctrine and techniques. These oper­
ations marked the culmination of decades of 
careful thinking by U.S. Marine planners 
about how to wrest heavily-defended island 
targets from a determined Japanese foe. By 
the time Guam was secured, there was con­
fidence that any Japanese-held island-in­
cluding any of the Japanese home islands­
could be attacked and taken by American 
forces, albeit frequently at very high cost in 
American casualties. 
The seizure of the Marianas, therefore , did 
more than (1) breaching another set of Japa­
nese defenses that stood between U.S. forces 
and the Japanese home islands and (2) pro­
viding air bases from which U.S. land-based 
bombers could strike at Japan proper. The 
Marianas operations ended with the U.S. 
Armed Forces confident about ultimate vic­
tory --confidence they would need for the 
even more costly, and more ferocious Central 
Pacific island battles yet to come - Peleliu in 
September-December 1944, Iwo Jima in Feb­
ruary-March 1945, and Okinawa in April­
June 1945. That confidence would have been 
put to the greatest test of all had the United 
States been required to invade and capture 
the southern Japanese home island of 
Kyushu on November 1, 1945, as planned in 
the summer of 1945, or even occupy the 
9 Ib!d: 363-64. 
central home island of Honshu, with an inva­
sion tentatively planned for March 1, 1946. 
Most believe that what made the invasion 
of Japan proper unnecessary was, in large 
part, the strategic air offensive against 
Japan staged from the Marianas. Massive 
airfield development on all the islands, but 
especially Tinian , provided the bases from 
which U.S. Army Air Forces B-29 bombers 
mounted huge air raids against Japanese 
cities and economic infrastructure, begin­
ning in late 1944 but accelerating in Feb­
ruary-March 1945. The catastrophic effects of 
this conventional bombing campaign, com­
bined with the atomic bombings of Hiro­
shima and Nagasaki in August 1945 (also 
staged from Tinian), ultimately tipped the 
scales within the Japanese government in 
favor of surrender in mid-August. 
MAJOR WORKS CONSULTED 
Philip A. Crowl. Campaign in the Mari­
anas. The War in the Pacific. United States 
Army in World War II. Washington, Office of 
the Chief of Military History, Department of 
the Army, 1960. 505 p. 
Leckie, Robert, Strong Men Armed: The 
United States Marines against Japan. New 
York, Ballantine Books Edition, 1962: 313-87. 
Henry I. Shaw, Jr. , Bernard C. Nalty, and 
Edwin T. Turnbladh. Central Pacific Drive . 
History of U.S. Marine Corps Operations in 
World War II. Volume III. Washington, His­
torical Branch, G-3 Division, Headquarters, 
U.S. Marine Corps, 1966. 685 p. 
T . Dodson Stamps and Vincent J. Esposito 
(Editors). A Military History of World War 
II, With Atlas . Volume II: Operations in the 
Pacific and Mediterranean Theaters. West 
Point , New York, United States Military 
Academy, 1953: 384-88.• 
By Mr. CRANSTON (for himself, 
Mr. SPECTER, Mr. DECONCINI, 
Mr. ROCKEFELLER, Mr. GRAHAM, 
Mr. AKAKA, Mr. DASCHLE, Mr. 
SIMPSON, Mr. THURMOND, Mr. 
MURKOWSKI, and Mr. JEFFORDS): 
S. 2322. A bill to increase the rates of 
compensation for veterans with serv­
ice-connected disabilities and the rates 
of dependency and indemnity com­
pensation for the survivors of certain 
disabled veterans; to the Committee on 
Veterans ' Affairs. 
VETERANS' SURVIVORS' COMPENSATION 
IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 1992 
Mr. CRANSTON. Mr. President, as 
the chairman of the Committee on Vet­
erans' Affairs, I am introducing today 
S. 2322, the proposed Veterans Com­
pensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment 
Act of 1992. I am joined in doing so by 
a bipartisan group of Veterans' Affairs 
Committee members-Senators SPEC­
TER, DECONCINI, ROCKEFELLER, GRA­
HAM, AKAKA, DASCHLE, SIMPSON, THUR­
MOND, MURKOWSKI, and JEFFORDS. 
SUMMARY 
Mr. President, this bill would in­
crease, effective December 1, 1992, the 
rates of compensation paid to veterans 
with service-connected disabilities and 
of dependency and . indemnity com­
pensation [DIC] paid to the survivors of 
certain service-disabled veterans. The 
rates would increase by the same per­
centage as the increase in Social Secu­
rity and VA pension benefits. The com­
pensation COLA would become effec-

--- PDF PAGE 67 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4557 
tive on the same date that the increase 
for those benefits takes effect. 
Mr. President, we have a fundamen­
tal obligation to address the needs of 
the 2.2 million service-disabled veter­
ans and 340,000 survivors who depend on 
these compensation programs. The 
needs of these veterans and survivors 
are uniquely related to veterans' af­
fairs. In my 23 years in the Senate, I 
consistently have led the effort to pro­
vide COLA's in compensation and DIC 
benefits in order to ensure that the 
value of these top-priority service-con­
nected VA benefits is not eroded by in­
flation. Most recently, Congress en­
acted Public Law 102-152 on October 30, 
1992, providing a 3.7-percent increase in 
these same benefits, effective Decem­
ber 1, 1991. 
The Congressional Budget Office cur­
rently estimates that the December 1, 
1992, Social Security and VA pension 
COLA will be 3.2 percent. This is a pre­
liminary estimate, though, and I ex­
pect the actual increase will be dif­
ferent than this estimate. The Presi­
dent's budget estimated in January 
that the increase would be 3 percent. 
The Congressional Budget Office esti­
mates that a 3.2-percent COLA would 
cost $339 million in budget authority 
and $305 million in outlays over cur­
rent law. 
INDEXING 
Mr. President, I am pleased to note 
that this year the administration has 
not proposed legislation that Reagan 
and Bush · administrations previously 
advocated that would index the veter­
ans' compensation COLA. Last year, 
the Senate voted 71 to 24 against an 
amendment to the fiscal year 1992 vet­
erans' COLA bill, . S. 775, that would 
have indexed the COLA. That vote rep­
resented an overwhelming rejection of 
the proposal to eliminate the Congress' 
control over the veterans' compensa­
tion COLA. I am hopeful that this issue 
finally has been laid to rest. 
NORMAL ROUNDING OF RATES 
Mr. President, the bill that I am in­
troducing today does not include, as 
did S. 775 last year, a provision to re­
quire that-for the purposes of the se­
questration baseline under section 
257(b) of the Balanced Budget and 
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, 
as amended by section 13101(e) of the 
Budget Enforcement Act of 1990-the 
COLA for each rate of compensation be 
assumed to be rounded to the nearest 
whole dollar. The OMB cost estimate 
for the COLA bill Congress enacted last 
fall and the administration's fiscal 
year 1993 budget conform that OMB has 
changed its rule and now follows the 
correct rounding rule as clarified in S. 
775. The provision thus no longer is 
necessary. 
As my colleagues know, the Budget 
Enforcement Act gave the Office of 
Management and Budget responsibility 
for determining the sequestration base­
line for the new pay-as-you-go budget 
rules. The new rules require sequestra­
tion of certain direct spending funds by 
the amount equal to net spending-new 
direct spending minus any offsetting 
new receipts or spending reductions-in 
excess of the direct spending that oth­
erwise would have occurred under cur­
rent law and certain established prac­
tices. 
Last year, the committee learned in 
VA's testimony for our June 12, 1991, 
hearing on S. 775, that OBM's fiscal 
year 1992 baseline assumed that all vet­
erans' compensation rate increases 
would be rounded down to the next 
lower whole dollar. This could have had 
the effect of attributing direct-spend­
ing costs, which could have triggered a 
sequestration, to COLA legislation 
that provided for normal rounding of 
compensation rates. However, the So­
cial Security and VA-pension COLA's, 
on which the increases in the rates of 
compensation are based, actually were 
just 3. 7 percent-lower than the 5.2-per­
cent estimate in the OMB baseline. 
This totally fortuitous circumstance 
enabled the Congress to enact a full, 
normally rounded COLA that avoided 
the threat of a sequester. 
OMB's fiscal year 1992 baseline could 
have forced the Congress to make sig­
nificant cuts in other programs in 
order to provide a full, normally round­
ed compensation COLA to service-dis­
abled veterans and their survivors. Had 
the OMB baseline accurately predicted 
the 3.7-percent COLA for fiscal year 
1992, enactment of a normally rounded 
3.7-percent COLA would have been 
scored by OMB as exceeding the pay-as­
you-go rule by $21 million in fiscal year 
1992 and almost $25 million for each 
year thereafter under OMB's rule. Each 
year's difference would be additive, so 
that, at that rate, the OMB rule could 
have forced cuts of over $230 million 
during fiscal years 1992-95. 
Mr. President, I am pleased that the 
Senate did not sit by idly while OMB 
unilaterally imposed a rule that treat­
ed those who were disabled as a result 
of service to their country worse than 
recipients of Social Security and other 
Federal benefits periodically adjusted 
by law. Senate passage, without dis­
sent, of the provision in S. 775 to re­
quire scorekeeping based on normal 
rounding sent OMB a clear message 
that its rule was unacceptable. 
Thus, I am very pleased to note that 
Secretary Derwinski has confirmed 
that the fiscal year 1993 budget submis­
sion includes a proposed compensation 
COLA that assumes normal rounding. I 
believe that the attention that our 
committee and the Senate focused on 
this issue last year was at least par­
tially responsible for OMB's apparent 
change of heart on the COLA rounding 
rule. 
CONCLUSION 
Mr. President, I am proud that Con­
gress has provided annual increases in 
VA compensation rates every fiscal 
year since 1976, and I urge all of my 
colleagues to continue to support these 
regular increases. 
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con­
sent that the text of the bill be printed 
in the RECORD at this point. 
There being no objection, the bill was 
ordered to be printed in the RECORD, as 
follows: 
s. 2322 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep­
resentatives of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 
SECTION 1. DISABILITY COMPENSATION AND DE· 
PENDENCY AND INDEMNITY COM· 
PENSATION RATE INCREASES. 
(a) IN GENERAL.-(1) The Secretary of Vet­
erans Affairs shall, as provided in paragraph 
(2), increase, effective December 1, 1992, the 
rates of and limitations on Department of 
Veterans Affairs disability compensation 
and dependency and indemnity compensa­
tion. 
(2)(A) The Secretary shall increase each of 
the rates and limitations in sections 1114, 
1115(1), 1162, 1311, 1311, and 1314 of title 38, 
United States Code, that were increased by 
the amendments made by the Veterans' 
Compensation Amendments of 1991 (Public 
Law 102-3; 105 Stat. 7). The increase shall be 
made in such rates and limitations as in ef­
fect on November 30, 1992, and shall be by the 
same percentage that benefit amounts pay­
able under title II of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 401 et seq.) are increased effective 
December 1, 1992, as a result of a determina­
tion under section 215(i) of such Act ( 42 
u.s.c. 415(i)). 
(B) In the computation of increased rates 
and limitations pursuant to subparagraph 
(A), amounts of $0.50 or more shall be round­
ed to the next higher dollar amount and 
amounts of less than $0.50 shall be rounded 
to the next lower dollar amount. 
(b) SPECIAL RULE.-The Secretary may ad­
just administratively, consistent with the 
increases made under subsection (a), the 
rates of disability compensation payable to 
persons within the purview of section 10 of 
Public Law 85--857 (2 Stat. 1263) who are not 
in receipt of compensation payable pursuant 
to chapter 11 of title 38, United States Code. 
(C) PUBLICATION REQUffiEMENT.-At the 
same time as the matters specified in section 
215(i)(2)(D) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 415 (i)(2)(D)) are required to be pub­
lished by reason of a determination made 
under section 215(i) of such Act during fiscal 
year 1992, the Secretary shall publish in the 
Federal Register the rates and limitations 
referred to in subsection (a)(2)(A) as in­
creased under this section. 
By Mr. CRANSTON (for himself 
and Mr. DECONCINI): 
S. 2323. A bill to amend title 38, Unit­
ed States Code, to revise the rates of 
dependency and indemnity compensa­
tion payable to surviving spouses of 
certain service-disabled veterans, to 
provide supplemental service disabled 
veterans' insurance for totally disabled 
veterans, and for other purposes; to the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs. 
VETERANS' SURVIVORS' BENEFITS 
IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 1992 
Mr. CRANSTON. Mr. President, as 
the chairman of the Committee on Vet­
erans' Affairs, I am introducing S. 2323, 
the proposed Veterans' Survivors' Ben­
efits Improvement Act of 1992. I am 

--- PDF PAGE 68 ---
4558 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
s. 2323 joined in doing so by the ranking 
Democratic member of our committee, 
Senator DECONCINI. 
Mr. President, this legislation would 
make major changes in V A's system of 
dependency and indemnity compensa­
tion paid to survivors of veterans who 
die from service-connected conditions. 
Most agree that the current system, 
which provides DIC. payments based on 
the pay grade, or rank, of the deceased 
veteran, is unfair and in need of major 
revisions. Our bill would establish a 
base rate of DIC, with additional 
amounts based on the length of the de­
ceased veteran's service and the aver­
age amount of compensation the vet­
eran received during the 5 years pre­
ceding the veteran's death. The bill 
also would increase the amount of serv­
ice disabled life insurance available to 
totally disabled veterans and contains 
provisions that offset the costs of the 
bill, so that the bill has no net cost 
under the pay-as-you-go budget rules. 
I have been working on this legisla­
tion for more than a year, with the co­
operation and assistance of many in­
terested veterans' organizations, bene­
fits experts, and others. I recently cir­
culated a discussion draft of the bill to 
many interested organizations and in­
dividuals, and we will continue to seek 
constructive input on this important 
legislation. Further modifications are 
under consideration. I have scheduled a 
hearing for March 20 on this bill and on 
the fiscal year 1993 veterans' compensa­
tion COLA, which I also am introduc­
ing today. 
Mr. President, I urge all of my col­
leagues to join in supporting this legis­
lation. 
Mr. President. I ask unanimous con­
sent that a summary of the bill and the 
text of the bill be printed in the 
RECORD at this point. 
There being no objection, the mate­
rial was ordered to be printed in the 
RECORD, as follows: 
SUMMARY OF THE DIC REFORM BILL 
This discussion draft would reform the De­
partment of Veterans Affairs Dependency 
and Indemnity Compensation (DID) program 
as follows: 
1. Provide eligible surviving spouses with a 
basic DIC rate of $650 a month, plus addi­
tional amounts, as described below, in rec­
ognition of the length and severity of the 
veteran's disability and the length of the 
veteran's service. 
2. Provide additional monthly DIC equal to 
10 percent of the average monthly disability 
compensation that the veteran received dur­
ing the five years preceding his or her death. 
The average monthly compensation would 
equal the total compensation the veteran re­
ceived or was entitled to receive during the 
five-year period, divided by 60 (5 yrs x 12 
months/yr). The calculation of average 
monthly compensation would not include 
any additional compensation the veteran re­
ceived for aid and attendance under section 
1114(r) of title 38, United States Code; for de­
pendent children under section 1115; or for a 
clothing allowance under section 1162. The 
Secretary would have to prescribe regula­
tions to adjust the calculation for inflation 
to ensure it is based on the current value of 
the compensation benefits that were paid to 
the veteran during the five-year period. 
3. Provide additional monthly DIC based 
on the length of the deceased veteran's mili­
tary service. For 20 or more years of service, 
the surviving spouse would receive an addi­
tional $60 a month; for at least 10 years, but 
less than 20 years, the amount would be S40 
a month; for at least five years, but less than 
10 years, the amount would be $20 a month; 
and for less than five years, no additional 
amount would be paid. 
4. Provide a special transitional rate of 
DIC for the first full month following the 
month of the veteran's death. The amount 
payable for the month after the veteran's 
death would be either 50 percent of the dis­
ability compensation paid to the deceased 
veteran for the last full month before the 
veteran's death, or the amount of DIC cal­
culated under the new DIC provisions, which­
ever is greater. 
5. Provide payment of a full month's dis­
ability compensation for the month during 
which the veteran died. (Current law termi­
nates disability compensation at the begin­
ning of the month during which the veteran 
died.) 
6. Increase the additional amount payable 
under section 1311(b) of title 38 to a surviving 
spouse with dependent children of the de­
ceased veteran from the current level of $71 
a month for each child to $100 during FY 
1993, $150 during FY 1994, and $200 thereafter. 
7. Apply the new provisions to DIC paid to 
eligible surviving spouses of veterans who 
died on or after October 1, 1992. Surviving 
spouses of veterans who died before that date 
would receive either their current DIC pay­
ment or the amount calculated under the 
proposed reform provisions, whichever is 
greater. 
8. Provide eligibility for up to $15,000 in ad­
ditional Service Disabled Veterans' Insur­
ance (SDVI) for totally disabled veterans 
who qualify under section 1912 of title 38 for 
a waiver of premiums. The veteran must 
apply for the additional coverage within the 
one-year period beginning on the month 
after the bill is enacted or within one year 
after VA notified or notifies the veteran that 
he or she is eligible for a waiver of pre­
miums. The veteran would have to pay the 
regular premium for the additional amount 
of SDVI. 
The draft legislation also contains provi­
sions to offset the costs of the DIC and insur­
ance provisions, as required by the "pay-as­
you-go" rule in the Budget Enforcement Act 
of 1990 (title XIII of Public Law 101-508). 
These provisions would: 
1. Make permanent section 8003 of the Om­
nibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 
(Public Law 101-508), which limits pension 
payments to $90 a month for Medicaid-eligi­
ble veterans receiving VA needs-based pen­
sion who have no dependents and who are in 
nursing homes participating in Medicaid. 
2. Expand section 8003 of OBRA to cover 
similarly situated veterans' survivors who 
are receiving VA pension. This provision is 
substantively identical to section 4 of S. 775, 
which the Senate passed on November 20, 
1991. 
3. Extend by one year, to September 30, 
1993, authority provided under section 8051 of 
OBRA that allows VA to obtain data from 
the Social Security Administration and the 
Internal Revenue Service to verify that 
those who apply for or receive VA needs­
based pension do not exceed income limita­
tions. , 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep­
resentatives of the United States of America in 
Congress assembled, 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCES TO TITLE 
38, UNITED STATES CODE. 
(a) SHORT T!TLE.-This Act may be cited as 
the "Veterans' Survivors' Benefits Improve­
ment Act of 1992". 
(b) REFERENCES TO TITLE 38.-Except as 
otherwise expressly provided, whenever in 
this Act an amendment or repeal is ex­
pressed in terms of an amendment to, or re­
peal of, a section or other provision, the ref­
erence shall be considered to be made to a 
section or other provision of title 38, United 
States Code. 
SEC. 2. REVISION OF RATES OF DEPENDENCY 
AND INDEMNITY COMPENSATION 
FOR SURVIVING SPOUSES OF VETER­
ANS. 
(a) DEATHS OF VETERANS BEFORE OCTOBER 
1, 1992.-Subsection (a) of section 1311 is 
amended-
(1) by inserting "(1)" before "Dependency"; 
and 
(2) by inserting at the end the following 
new paragraphs: 
"(2) Subject to subsections (b) through (d) 
and except as provided in paragraph (3), de­
pendency and indemnity compensation shall 
be paid to surviving spouses of veterans 
whose deaths occur before October 1, 1992, at 
the rates provided in paragraph (1). 
"(3) Each surviving spouse referred to in 
paragraph (2) for whom the rate of depend­
ency and indemnity compensation payable 
under subsection (e)(2) exceeds the rate of 
such compensation payable under paragraph 
(1) shall be paid dependency and indemnity 
compensation at the rates specified in sub­
section (e)(2).". 
(b) DEATHS ON OR AFTER OCTOBER 1, 1992.­
Section 1311 is amended by adding at the end 
the following new subsections: 
"(e)(l) Subject to subsections (b) through 
(d), the rates of dependency and indemnity 
compensation payable for deaths occurring 
on or after Octber 1, 1992, shall be deter­
mined under this subsection. 
"(2) The amount of dependency and indem­
nity compensation payable to the surviving 
spouse of a deceased veteran under this para­
graph shall be the sum of-
"(A) $650; 
"(B) an amount that is equal to 10 percent 
of the average monthly compensation paid to 
the veteran during the five years before the 
veteran's death; and 
"(C) an amount equal to the following: 
"(i) In the case of a veteran who completed 
a period of active military, naval, or air 
service of twenty years or more, $60. 
"(ii) In the case of a veteran who com­
pleted a period of such service of ten years or 
more but less than twenty years, $40. 
"(iii) In the case of a veteran who com­
pleted a period of such service of five years 
or more but less than ten years, $20. 
"(3)(A) For the purposes of paragraph (2), 
the term 'average monthly compensation' 
means the amount that is determined by di­
viding by 60 the total amount of compensa­
tion, if any, which a deceased veteran re­
ceived or was entitled to receive under chap­
ter 11 of this title (other than under sections 
1114(4), 1115, and 1162) during the five-year 
period preceding the date of the veteran's 
death. 
"(B) In calculating the average monthly 
compensation of a veteran under subpara­
graph (A), the Secretary shall adjust for in­
flation to the later of October 1, 1992, or the 
date on which a claim for compensation is 

--- PDF PAGE 69 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4559 
filed under this chapter the rate of com­
pensation in each of the five years preceding 
the date of the veteran's death. The Sec­
retary shall prescribe the manner of adjust­
ments for inflation under this paragraph. 
"(D Dependency and indemnity compensa­
tion shall be paid to a surviving spouse for 
the first full calendar month following the 
death of a veteran in an amount that is the 
greater of-
"(1) 50 percent of the amount of compensa­
tion under chapter 11 of this title which the 
veteran received or was entitled to receive 
for the last full month prior to the date of 
the veteran's death; and 
"(2) the amount payable in the case of such 
veteran to subsection (e)(2).". 
(c) ADDITIONAL DIC FOR CHILDREN.-(1) Sec­
tion 13ll(b) is amended by striking out "$71 
for each such child" and inserting in lieu 
thereof "$100 for each such child during fis­
cal year 1993, $150 for each such child during 
fiscal year 1994, and $200 for each such child 
during each fiscal year thereafter". 
(2) The amendment made by paragraph (1) 
shall take effect on October 1, 1992. 
SEC. 3. DATE OF DISCONTINUATION OF COM· 
PENSATION IN THE CASE OF THE 
DEATH OF A VETERAN. 
Section 5112 is amended-
(1) in subsection (b), by striking out "The" 
in the matter preceding clause (1) and insert­
ing in lieu thereof "Except as provided in 
subsection (c), the"; 
(2) by redesignating subsection (c) as sub­
section (d); and 
(3) by inserting after subsection (b) the fol­
lowing new subsection: 
"Cc) The effective date of a discontinuance 
of compensation by reason of the death of a 
payee shall be the last day of the month in 
which such death occurs.". 
SEC. 4. SUPPLEMENTAL SERVICE DISABLED VET­
ERANS' INSURANCE FOR TOTALLY 
DISABLED VETERANS. 
(a) IN GENERAL.-Subchapter I of chapter 
19 is amended by inserting after section 1922 
the following new section: 
"§ 1922A. Supplemental service disabled vet­
erans' insurance for totally disabled veter­
ans 
"(a) Any person insured under section 
1922(a) of this title who qualifies for a waiver 
of premiums under section 1912 of this title 
is eligible, as provided in this section , for 
supplemental insurance in an amount not to 
exceed $15,000. 
"(b) To qualify for supplemental insurance 
under this section a person must file with 
the Secretary an application for such insur­
ance not later than the end of (1) the one­
year period beginning on the first day of the 
first month following the month in which 
this section is enacted, or (2) the one-year 
period beginning on the date that the De­
partment notifies the person that the person 
is entitled to a waiver of premiums under 
section 1912 of this title. 
"(c) Supplemental insurance granted under 
this section shall be granted upon the same 
terms and conditions as insurance granted 
under section 1922(a) of this title, except that 
such insurance may not be granted to a per­
son under this section unless the application 
is made for such insurance before the person 
attains 65 years of age. 
"(d) No waiver of premiums shall be made 
in the case of any person for supplemental 
insurance granted under this section.". 
"(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.-The table of 
sections at the beginning pf chapter 19 is 
amended by inserting after the item relating 
to section 192~ the following new item: 
"1922A. Supplemental service disabled veter-
ans' insurance for totally dis­
abled veterans.". 
SEC. 5. REDUCTION IN PENSION FOR VETERANS 
AND VETERANS' SURVIVORS WHO 
ARE RECEMNG MEDICAID-COV­
ERED NURSING HOME CARE. 
(a) REDUCTION IN PENSION.-Paragraph (2) 
of section 5503(D is amended to read as fol­
lows: 
"(2)(A) Not more than $90 per month may 
be paid under chapter 15 of this title to or for 
any person described in subparagraph (B) for 
any period that a nursing facility furnishes 
such person with services covered by a Med­
icaid plan. The restriction in the preceding 
sentence applies to periods after the month 
of the person's admission to the nursing fa-
cility. , 
"CB) A person referred to in subparagraph 
(A) is a person-
" (i) who is covered by a Medicaid plan for 
services furnished such person by a nursing 
facility; and 
"(ii) who is (I) a veteran who has neither 
spouse nor child, or (II) a surviving spouse 
who has no child.". 
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.-Section 
5503(f) is amended as follows: 
(1) In paragraph (3)-
(A) by striking out "a veteran" and insert­
ing in lieu thereof "a person referred to in 
paragraph (2)(A)"; and 
(B) by striking out "such veteran under 
paragraph (2) of this subsection" and insert­
ing in lieu thereof "such person under such 
paragraph". 
(2) In paragraph (4)-
(A) by striking out "A veteran" and insert­
ing in lieu thereof " A person referred to in 
paragraph (2)(A)"; 
(B) by striking out "the veteran" both 
places it appears and inserting in lieu there­
of "the person"; and 
(C) by striking out "the veteran's " and in­
serting in lieu thereof "the person's". 
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.-The amendments 
made by subsections (a) and (b) shall take ef­
fect on October 1, 1992, and apply with re­
spect to months after September 1991. 
(d) DELETION OF EXPIRATION DATE.-Sec­
tion 5503(f) is amended by striking out para­
graph (6). 
SEC. 6. EXTENSION OF CERTAIN AUTHORITY TO 
CARRY OUT INCOME VERIFICATION. 
(a) TITLE 38.-Section 5317(g) is amended by 
striking out "September 30, 1992" and insert­
ing in lieu thereof "September 30, 1993". 
(b) INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986.-Sec­
tion 6103(1)(7)(D)(viii) of the Internal Reve­
nue Code of 1986 is amended in the second 
sentence of the flush material by striking 
out "September 30, 1992" and inserting in 
lieu thereof "September 30, 1993". 
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS 
s. 523 
At the request of Mr. SIMON, the 
names of the Senator from Rhode Is­
land [Mr. PELL] and the Senator from 
Washington [Mr. ADAMS] were added as 
cosponsors of S. 523, a bill , to authorize 
the establishment of the National Afri­
can-American Memorial Museum with­
in the Smithsonian Institution. 
s. 765 
At the request of Mr. BREAUX, the 
name of the Senator from Rhode Island 
[Mr. PELL] was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 765, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to exclude the im­
position of employer social security 
taxes on cash tips. 
s. 799 
At the request of Mr. NICKLES, the 
name of the Senator from North Caro.:. 
lina [Mr. HELMS] was added as a co­
sponsor of S. 799, a bill to amend the 
Davis-Bacon and the Service Contract 
Act of 1965 to exempt from such Acts 
tenants of federally related housing 
who participate in the construction, al­
teration, or repair of their residences, 
and for other purposes. 
s. 843 
At the request of Mr. BREAUX, the 
name of the Senator from California 
[Mr. SEYMOUR] was added as a cospon­
sor of S. 843, a bill to amend title 46, 
United States Code, to repeal the re­
quirement that the Secretary of Trans­
portation collect a fee or charge for 
recreational vessels. 
s. 866 
At the request of Mr. BREAUX, the 
names of the Senator from Idaho [Mr. 
SYMMS] and the Senator from Indiana 
[Mr. COATS] were added as cosponsors 
of S. 866, a bill to amend the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 to clarify that 
certain activities of a charitable orga­
nization in operating an amateur ath­
letic event do not constitute unrelated 
trade or business activities. 
s. 1028 
At the request of Ms. MIKULSKI, the 
name of the Senator from Massachu­
setts [Mr. KENNEDY] was added as a co­
sponsor of S. 1028, a bill to authorize 
increased funding for international 
population assistance and to provide 
for a United States contribution to the 
United Nations Population Fund. 
s. 1102 
At the request of Mr. MOYNIHAN, the 
name of the Senator from Alabama 
[Mr. SHELBY] was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1102, a bill to amend title XVIII of 
the Social Security Act to provide cov­
erage of qualified mental health profes­
sionals services furnished in commu­
nity mental health centers. 
s. 1128 
At the request of Mr. GLENN, the 
name of the Senator from Oklahoma 
[Mr. BOREN] was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1128, a bill to impose sanctions 
against foreign persons and United 
States persons that assist foreign coun­
tries in acquiring a nuclear explosive 
device or unsaf eguarded special nuclear 
material, and for other purposes. 
s. 1179 
At the request of Mr. JOHNSTON, the 
name of the Senator from Missouri 
[Mr. BOND] was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 1179, a bill to stimulate the produc­
tion of geologic-map information in 
the United States through the coopera­
tion of Federal, State, and academic 
participants. · 
s. 1357 
At the request of Mr. BREAUX, the 
names of the Senator from Mississippi 
[Mr. COCHRAN], the Senator from Vir­
ginia [Mr. WARNER], and the Senator 
from New Hampshire [Mr. RUDMAN] 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1357, a 
bill to amend the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 to permanently extend the 

--- PDF PAGE 70 ---
4560 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
treatment of certain qualified small 
issue bonds. 
s. 1379 
At the request of Mr. NICKLES, his 
name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1379, a bill to prohibit the payment of 
Federal benefits to illegal aliens. 
At the request of Mr. EXON, the name 
of the Senator from Wisconsin [Mr. 
KASTEN] was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1379, supra. 
s. 1565 
At the request of Mr. GRAHAM, the 
name of the Senator from Massachu­
setts [Mr. KENNEDY] was added as a co­
sponsor of S. 1565, a bill to amend the 
Federal A via ti on Act of 1958 to ensure 
fair treatment of airline employees in 
connection with route transfers. 
s. 1572 
At the request of Mr. BREAUX, the 
name of the Senator from Rhode Island 
[Mr. CHAFEE] was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1572, a bill to amend title XVIII of 
the Social Security Act to eliminate 
the requirement that extended care 
services be provided not later than 30 
days after a period of hospitalization of 
not fewer than 3 consecutive days in 
order to be covered under part A of the 
Medicare Program, and to expand home 
health services under such program. 
s. 1658 
At the request of Mr. NICKLES, the 
name of the Senator from North Caro­
lina [Mr. HELMS] was added as a co­
sponsor of S. 1658, a bill to require the 
Secretary of Labor, with respect to 
contracts covering federally financed 
and assisted construction, and labor 
standards provisions applicable to non­
construction contracts subject to the 
Contract Work Hours and Safety 
Standards Act, to ensure that helpers 
are treated equitably, and for other 
purposes. 
s. 1698 
At the request of Mr. SARBANES, the 
name of the Senator from Alaska [Mr. 
STEVENS] was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 1698, a bill to establish a National 
Fallen Firefighters Foundation. 
s. 1786 
At the request of Mr. SPECTER, his 
name was added as a cosponsor of S. 
1786, a bill to amend the Internal Reve­
nue Code of 1986 to more accurately 
codify the depreciable life of semi­
conductor manufacturing equipment. 
s. 1842 
At the request of Mr. DASCHLE, the 
name of the Senator from Colorado 
[Mr. WIRTH] was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 1842, a bill to amend title XIX of 
the Social Security Act to provide for 
Medicaid coverage of all certified nurse 
practitioners and clinical nurse spe­
cialists services. 
s. 1860 
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the 
name of the Senator from New Jersey 
[Mr. BRADLEY] was added as a cospon­
sor of S. 1860, a bill to amend part A of 
title IV of the Social Security Act to 
remove barriers and disincentives in 
the program of aid to families with de­
pendent children so as to enable recipi­
ents of such aid to move toward self­
sufficiency through microenterprises. 
s. 1866 
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the 
name of the Senator from Rhode Island 
[Mr. PELL] was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 1866, a bill to promote community 
based economic development and to 
provide assistance for community de­
velopment corporations, and for other 
purposes. 
s. 1962 
At the request of Mr. ADAMS, the 
name of the Senator from Arizona [Mr. 
DECONCINI] was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 1962, a bill to amend the Civil Rights 
Act of 1991 to apply the Act to certain 
workers, and for other purposes. 
s. 1965 
At the request of Mr. GORTON, the 
name of the Senator from Alaska [Mr. 
STEVENS] was added as a cosponsor of 
S. 1965, a bill to amend the Clean Water 
Act to provide global environmental 
protection incentives and enhanced 
competitiveness of domestic business. 
s. 1970 
At the request of Mr. DURENBERGER, 
the names of the Senator from New 
Jersey [Mr. BRADLEY] and the Senator 
from North Carolina [Mr. SANFORD] 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1970, a 
bill to expedite the naturalization of 
aliens who served with special guerilla 
units in Laos. 
s. 1998 
At the request of Mr. EXON, the 
names of the Senator from Massachu­
setts [Mr. KERRY], the Senator from 
Maryland [Ms. MIKULSKI], and the Sen­
ator from Washington [Mr. ADAMS] 
were added as cosponsors of S. 1998, a 
bill to adopt the Airline Consumer Pro­
tection and Competition Emergency 
Commission Act of 1991. 
s. 2009 
At the request of Mr. PACKWOOD, the 
name of the Senator from South Caro­
lina [Mr. HOLLINGS] was added as a co­
sponsor of S. 2009, a bill to amend the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to mod­
ify certain provisions relating to the 
treatment of forestry activities. 
s. 2103 
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the 
name of the Senator from Colorado 
[Mr. WIRTH] was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2103, a bill to amend title XVIII of 
the Social Security Act to provide for 
increased medicare reimbursement for 
nurse practitioners, clinical nurse spe­
cialists, and certified nurse midwives, 
to increase the delivery of health serv­
ices in health professional shortage 
areas, and for other purposes. 
s. 2104 
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the 
name of the Senator from Colorado 
[Mr. WIRTH] was added as a cosponsor 
of S. 2104, a bill to amend title XVIII of 
the Social Security Act to provide for 
increased medicare reimbursement for 
physical assistance, to increase the de­
li very of health services in health pro­
fessional shortage areas, and for other 
purposes. 
s. 2151 
At the request of Mr. GRAHAM, the 
name of the Senator from Georgia [Mr. 
FOWLER] was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2151, a bill to amend the Internal Reve­
nue Code of 1986 to allow a credit for 
the purchase of a principal residence by 
a first-time home buyer. 
s. 2169 
At the request of Mr. LAUTENBERG, 
the name of the Senator from South 
Dakota [Mr. DASCHLE] was added as a 
cosponsor of S. 2169, a bill making sup­
plemental appropriations for programs 
in the fiscal year that ends September 
30, 1992, that will provide near-term im­
provements in the Nation's transpor­
tation infrastructure and long-term 
benefits to those systems and to the 
productivity of the United States econ­
omy. 
s. 2205 
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the 
names of the Senator from Oregon [Mr. 
HATFIELD] and the Senator from New 
Mexico [Mr. BINGAMAN] were added as 
cosponsors of S. 2205, a bill to amend 
the Public Heal th Service Act to pro­
vide for the establishment or support 
by States of registeries regarding can­
cer, to provide for a study regarding 
the elevated rate of mortality for 
breast cancer in certain States, and for 
other purposes. 
s. 2236 
At the request of Mr. SIMON, the 
names of the Senator from Kansas 
[Mrs. KASSEBAUM], the Senator from 
Maine [Mr. MITCHELL], and the Senator 
from Oklahoma [Mr. BOREN] were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2236, a bill to 
amend the Voting Rights Act of 1965 to 
modify and extend the bilingual voting 
provisions of the act. 
s. 2244 
At the request of Mr. THURMOND, the 
name of the Senator from New York 
[Mr. D'AMATO] was added as a cospon­
sor of S. 2244, a bill to require the con­
struction of a memorial on Federal 
land in the District of Columbia or its 
environs to honor members of the 
Armed Forces who served in World War 
II and to commemorate United States 
participation in that conflict. 
S. 2278 
At the request of Mr. SHELBY, the 
name of the Senator from South Da­
kota [Mr. PRESSLER] was added as a co­
sponsor of S. 2278, a bill to amend sec­
tion 801 of the act entitled "An Act to 
establish a code of law for the District 
of Columbia," approved March 3, 1901, 
to require life imprisonment without 
parole, or death penalty, for first de­
gree murder. 

--- PDF PAGE 71 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4561 
s. 2290 
At the request of Mr. WIRTH, the 
names of the Senator from Pennsylva­
nia [Mr. WOFFORD] and the Senator 
from Massachusetts [Mr. KERRY] were 
added as cosponsors of S. 2290, a bill to 
require public disclosure of examina­
tion reports of certain failed depository 
institutions. 
s. 2305 
At the request of Mr. THURMOND, the 
name of the Senator from South Da­
kota [Mr. PRESSLER] was added as a co­
sponsor of S. 2305, a bill to control and 
prevent crime. 
s. 2317 
At the request of Mr. LOTT, the name 
of the Senator from Iowa [Mr. GRASS­
LEY] was added as a cosponsor of S. 
2317, a bill to amend the Congressional 
Budget a.nd Impoundment Control of 
1974 to reform the budget process, and 
for other purposes. 
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION 166 
At the request of Mr. DOLE, the name 
of the Senator from North Carolina 
[Mr. SANFORD] was added as a cospon­
sor of Senate Joint Resolution 166, a 
joint resolution designating the week 
of October 6 through 12, 1991, as "Na­
tional Customer Service Week." 
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION 230 
At the request of Mr. REID, the 
names of the Senator from Florida [Mr. 
GRAHAM], the Senator from Indiana 
[Mr. LUGAR], the Senator from Oregon 
[Mr. PACKWOOD], and the Senator from 
New Jersey [Mr. BRADLEY] were added 
as cosponsors of Senate Joint Resolu­
tion 230, a joint resolution providing 
for the issuance of a stamp to com­
memorate the Women's Army Corps. 
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION 231 
At the request of Mr. THURMOND, the 
names of the Senator from Kansas 
[Mrs. KASSEBAUM], the Senator from 
Vermont [Mr. LEAHY], and the Senator 
from Texas [Mr. BENTSEN] were added 
as cosponsors of Senate Joint Resolu­
tion 231, a joint resolution to designate 
the month of May 1992, as "National 
Foster Care Month." 
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION 248 
At the request of Mr. CONRAD, the 
name of the Senator from New York 
[Mr. D' AMATO] was added as a cospon­
sor of Senate Joint Resolution 248, a 
joint resolution designating August 7, 
1992, as "Battle of Guadalcanal Re­
membrance Day." 
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION 250 
At the request of Mr. GRAHAM, the 
name of the Senator from New York 
[Mr. D'AMATO] was added as a cospon­
sor of Senate Joint Resolution 250, a 
joint resolution to designate February 
1992 as "National Grapefruit Month." 
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION 257 
At the request of Mr. LAUTENBERG, 
the name of the Senator from Virginia 
[Mr. WARNER] was added as a cosponsor 
of Senate Joint Resolution 257, a joint 
resolution to designate the month of 
June 1992, as "National Scleroderma 
Awareness Month ." 
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION 263 
At the request of Mr. SARBANES, the 
name of the Senator from Maryland 
[Ms. MIKULSKI] was added as a cospon­
sor of Senate Joint Resolution 263, a 
joint resolution to designate May 4, 
1992, through May 10, 1992, as "Public 
Service Recognition Week." 
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 70 
At the request of Mr. SANFORD, the 
name of the Senator from New York 
[Mr. D'AMATO] was added as a cospon­
sor of Senate Concurrent Resolution 70, 
a concurrent resolution to express the 
sense of the Congress with respect to 
the support of the United States for 
the protection of the African elephant. 
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 80 
At the request of Mr. SIMON, the 
names of the Senator from Illinois [Mr. 
DIXON], the Senator from Washington 
[Mr . ADAMS], the Senator from Rhode 
Island [Mr. PELL], the Senator from 
West Virginia [Mr. ROCKEFELLER], the 
Senator from Maine [Mr. MITCHELL], 
and the Senator from Maryland [Ms. 
MIKULSKI] were added as cosponsors of 
Senate Concurrent Resolution 80, a 
concurrent resolution concerning 
democratic changes in Zaire. 
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION 89 
At the request of Mr. KERRY, the 
name of the Senator from Hawaii [Mr. 
INOUYE] was added as a cosponsor of 
Senate Concurrent Resolution 89, a 
concurrent resolution to express the 
sense of the Congress concerning the 
United Nations Conference on Environ­
ment and Development. 
SENATE RESOLUTION 246 
At the request of Mr. DOLE, the name 
of the Senator from Massachusetts 
[Mr. KERRY] was added as a cosponsor 
of Senate Resolution 246, a resolution 
on the recognition of Croatia and Slo­
venia. 
SENATE RESOLUTION 249 
At the request of Mr. D'AMATO, the 
name of the Senator from Massachu­
setts [Mr. KENNEDY] was added as a co­
sponsor of Senate Resolution 249, a res­
olution expressing the sense of the Sen­
ate that the United States should seek 
a final and conclusive account of the 
whereabouts and definitive fate of 
Raoul Wallenberg. 
SENATE RESOLUTION 258 
At the request of Mr. SIMON, the 
names of the Senator from Massachu­
setts [Mr. KENNEDY], the Senator from 
Minnesota [Mr . DURENBERGER], the 
Senator from Virginia [Mr. ROBB], and 
the Senator from North Carolina [Mr. 
SANFORD] were added as cosponsors of 
Senate Resolution 258, a resolution ex­
pressing the sense of the Senate re­
garding needed action to address the 
continuing state of war and chaos and 
the emergency humanitarian situation 
in Somalia. 
SENATE RESOLUTION 264-RELAT­
ING TO PLANTING TREES IN 
AMERICAN COMMUNITIES 
Mr. SIMON (for himself, Mr. AKAKA, 
Mr. BUMPERS, Mr. D'AMATO, Mr. 
DASCHLE, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. SANFORD, 
Mr. SHELBY, and Mr. WOFFORD) submit­
ted the following resolution; which was 
referred to the Committee on Environ­
ment and Public Works: 
S. RES. 264 
Whereas trees use carbon dioxide in the at­
mosphere to prpduce oxygen, which people 
need in order to live; 
Whereas by acting as both shade and 
windbreaks, trees can save energy; 
Whereas trees and forests filter air pollu­
tion, provide wildlife habitat, protect water­
shed areas, prevent soil erosion , and reduce 
noise pollution; 
Whereas tree planting projects contribute 
to an enhanced sense of community, better 
understanding among neighbors, and a great­
er degree of control over the structure of a 
neighborhood; 
Whereas trees provide recreational bene­
fits; 
Whereas trees provide beauty and diversity 
to both rural and urban settings; 
Whereas disease and pollution kill millions 
of city trees each year; and 
Whereas there are presently at least 100 
million sites available around homes and in 
towns and cities in the United States where 
tree planting would improve energy effi­
ciency: Now, therefore , be it 
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate 
that people in the United States should plant 
more trees in their communities. 
SENATE RESOLUTION 265-RELAT­
ING TO THE YEAR OF THE TREE 
Mr. SIMON (for himself, Mr. AKAKA, 
Mr. BUMPERS, Mr. D'AMATO, Mr. 
DASCHLE, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. SANFORD, 
Mr. SHELBY, and Mr. WOFFORD) submit­
ted the following resolution; which was 
referred to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations: 
S. RES. 265 
Whereas planting trees is one of the best 
and easiest ways to help reduce global warm­
ing and other environmental problems; 
Whereas trees use carbon dioxide in the at­
mosphere to produce oxygen, which people 
need in order to live; 
Whereas by acting as both shade and 
windbreaks, trees can save energy; 
Whereas trees and forests filter air pollu­
tion, provide wildlife habitat. protect water­
shed areas, prevent soil erosion, and reduce 
noise pollution; 
Whereas tree planting projects contribute 
to an enhanced sense of community , better 
understanding among neighbors, and a great­
er degree of control over the structure of a 
neighborhood; 
Whereas trees provide recreational bene­
fits; 
Whereas trees provide beauty to both rural 
and urban settings; and 
Whereas expanding the numbers of healthy 
trees and forests and restoring natural 
ecosytems produce environmental and eco­
nomic benefits that continue for decades: 
Now, therefore, be it 
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate 
that the United Nations should designate 
1993 as the "Year of the Tree" in order to en-

--- PDF PAGE 72 ---
4562 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
courage the citizens of the world to plant 
trees. 
• Mr. SIMON. Mr. President, it is my 
pleasure today to introduce, along with 
my colleagues Senators GRASSLEY, 
SANFORD, WOFFORD, AKAKA, and 
DASCHLE, two sense of the Senate reso­
lutions. One is to encourage Americans 
to plant more trees in their commu­
nities. The second is to encourage the 
United Nations to designate 1993 as the 
"Year of the Tree," in order to inspire 
people around the world to plant trees. 
Our message: Individual action can 
make a difference. 
My family and I have a very special 
tradition we keep on general election 
and primary election days. We get to­
gether at our home in Makanda, IL, 
and plant a tree. This event is an op­
portunity for our family to make a 
lasting contribution to a better world. 
All across the Nation, Americans are 
learning about environmental prob­
lems and solutions that can be 
achieved through individual action. 
People at my town meetings tell me 
they want to find out more about what 
they can do, as families, classrooms, 
and individuals, to make a difference. 
This is very encouraging. 
Planting trees is one of the best and 
easiest ways to have an impact on im­
proving our environment. By using car­
bon dioxide in the atmosphere to 
produce oxygen, trees help reduce glob­
al warming. Trees help save energy by 
acting as shade in the summer and 
windbreaks in the winter. They filter 
air pollution, provide wildlife habitat, 
protect watershed areas, prevent soil 
erosion, and reduce noise. 
Many communities and neighbor­
hoods have tree planting projects. 
These projects contribute to an en­
hanced sense of community and a bet­
ter understanding among neighbors. 
Trees are essential elements of a com­
munity. If we are really going to clean 
up our environment, more and more 
people have to work at it, both in our 
country and around the world. 
I would also like to point out that 
the American Forestry Association 
recommends the following steps when 
planting a tree. 
First, locate a clear, open site for 
your tree, with generous rooting area 
and good drainage. 
Second, loosen and blend the soil in 
the entire planting area 6-10 inches 
deep. In the center, dig a hole at least 
as wide, but only as deep as the root 
ball. 
Third, remove tree from burlap or 
container and place on solidly packed 
soil so that the root collar-where the 
tree's main stem meets the roots--is 
slightly above the surrounding grade. 
Fourth, backfill hole and lightly 
pack the soil into place around the 
tree. 
Fifth, spread a 2- to 3-inch layer of 
mulch in the entire area, keeping a 6-
to 8-inch distance from the tree trunk. 
Sixth, stake tree so that it can flex 
in the wind. Attach stake to tree using 
discarded rubber innertubes. Remove 
them after 6 months. 
Seventh, water thoroughly, but do 
not flood the hole. Water twice a week 
during dry periods. 
I hope more people, including law­
makers, will take a more active inter­
est in planting trees. I urge my col­
leagues to support these resolutions.• 
SENATE RESOLUTION 266-RELAT­
ING TO THE ARMS CARGO OF 
THE NORTH KOREAN MERCHANT 
SHIP "DAE HUNG HO" 
Mr. McCAIN (for himself, Mr. 
D' AMATO, Mr. KERRY, Mr. DECONCINI, 
Mr. DIXON, Mr. SHELBY, Mr. SMITH, Mr. 
THURMOND, Mr. LEVIN, Mr. WARNER, 
Mr. SIMON, Mr. GLENN, Mr. GRAHAM, 
Mr. BRYAN, Mr. HATCH, Mr. KOHL, Mr. 
HELMS, Mr. BOND, Mr. AKAKA, and Mr. 
GRASSLEY) submitted the following res­
olution; which was referred to the 
Committee on Foreign Relations: 
S. RES. 266 
Whereas Israel is the leading democracy in 
the Middle East, is America's closest strate­
gic ally in the region, and is a principal par­
ticipant in the Middle East Peace Con­
ference; 
Whereas Israel's security is a major con­
cern to the Senate as it seeks to influence 
the debate on United States foreign policy in 
the Middle East; 
Whereas in the post-Cold War era, the 
central element in United States relations 
with other countries must be an effort to 
stem the sale of advanced weapons tech­
nology to aggressor nations; 
Whereas without secure borders for Israel, 
peace in the Middle East is impossible, and 
Israel's borders are not secure in an era of 
weapons proliferation; 
Whereas Syria is on the Secretary of 
State's list of countries that sponsor terror­
ism; 
Whereas the regime of Hafez Al Assad is 
undemocratic and brutal and has continued 
to support elements of the Palestinian com­
munity most opposed to Secretary Baker's 
current peace initiative; 
Whereas Syria ordered $5.6 billion of new 
arms between 1987 and 1990 and received de­
livery of $14.5 billion during the same period; 
Whereas Syria has purchased North Korean 
missiles, components, and arms-related tech­
nology since the end of the Persian Gulf War; 
and 
Whereas the North Korean merchant ship 
Dae Hung Ho is about to deliver $100,000,000 
worth of SCUD-C missiles and missile-relat­
ed technology to Syria: Now, therefore, be it 
Resolved, That 'it is the sense of the Senate 
that-
(1) the President, the member countries of 
the Missile Technology Control Regime 
(MTCR), the participants of the Middle East 
Peace Conference, and the international 
community in general should use the inter­
national sanction of condemnation to pre­
vent the delivery of SCUD missiles and mis­
sile-related technology to Syria by the North 
Korean merchant ship Dae Hung Ho; and 
(2) out ·of respect for Israel's security, 
Syria should demonstrate its desire for peace 
and acceptance of Israel's right to exist by 
terminating its agreement with North Korea 
for delivery of the cargo of Dae Hung Ho. 
SEC. 2. For purposes of this resolution, the 
term "Missile Technology Control Regime" 
or "MTCR" means the policy statement 
among the United States, the United King­
dom, the Federal Republic of Germany, 
France, Italy, Canada, and Japan, announced 
on April 16, 1987, to restrict sensitive missile­
relevant transfers. 
SEC. 3. The Secretary of the Senate shall 
transmit a copy of this resolution to the 
President. 
Mr. McCAIN. Mr. President, I rise 
today to focus the Senate's attention 
on the voyage of the Dae Hung Ho, a 
North Korean merchant ship carrying 
arms to the Middle East. 
The resolution that I have submitted 
for referral resolves: 
That it is the sense of the Senate that-
(1) the President, the member countries of 
the Missile Technology Control Regime 
(MTCR), the participants of the Middle East 
Peace Conference, and the international 
community in general should use the inter­
national sanction of condemnation to pre­
vent the delivery of SCUD missiles and mis­
sile-related technology to Syria by the North 
Korean merchant ship Dae Hung Ho; and 
(2) out of respect for Israel's security, 
Syria should demonstrate its desire for peace 
and acceptance of Israel's right to exist by 
terminating its agreement with North Korea 
for delivery of the cargo of Dae Hung Ho. 
In early February, the Dae Hung Ho 
left North Korea for Syria carrying 
$100 million worth of Scud C missiles 
and related equipment. The new Scud C 
missiles, which have a range of 360 
miles, supplement a similar shipment 
last year of 20 Scud C's, and like the 
earlier shipment, will enhance Syria's 
ability to strike anywhere in Israel 
from a position deep inside its own bor­
ders. 
A great deal has been said since the 
start of Secretary Baker's Middle East 
peace initiative on October 30 about 
confidence building measures. It has 
frequently been alleged by the press 
and others that the Israelis have been 
reluctant to reassure their neighbors of 
their peaceful intentions. On the other 
hand, the failure of Hafez al-Assad to 
reassure Israel of his intentions have 
been virtually ignored. 
How do Syrian arms purchases since 
the end of the gulf war instill con­
fidence in the peace process? How does 
the voyage of the Dae Hung Ho instill 
confidence in the peace process? 
Where is the international outrage as 
this North Korean ship steams toward 
the Middle East with its lethal cargo? 
In June of 1991, 20 Korean built Scud 
C missiles were delivered to Syria. In 
August of 1991, Syria ordered an addi­
tional 54 Scud C missiles and a brigade 
of missile launchers valued between 
$200 and $400 million. This is where we 
stood at the start of the Madrid Con­
ference. Now it appears .that the North 
Koreans are following up on their part 
of the latest destabilizing bargain with 
Syria. 
The people of Israel are very familiar 
with scud missiles. We all remember 
scenes of Israelis huddled together in 

--- PDF PAGE 73 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4563 
their basements wearing gas masks. We 
all remember the images of Israeli 
school girls with their lunchpails in 
one hand and their gas masks in the 
other. 
The events of the gulf war revealed a 
vulnerability that an entire generation 
of Israelis had never experienced. The 
destruction caused by Saddam Hussein 
reminded older generations of days of 
even greater vulnerability. 
By not condemning the delivery of 
scud missiles to Syria, we are asking 
the Israelis to live with that vulner­
ability. At the same time we are ask­
ing, that despite their vulnerability, 
they become involved in the give and 
take of negotiations with their neigh­
bors. 
Our inaction on this matter and the 
lack of international pressure on Syria 
defy logic and defy humanity. Our si­
lence on the course of the Dae Hung Ho 
is inconsistent with the demands being 
placed on the Israelis in connection 
with the peace conference and shows 
contempt for the needs of the Israeli 
people. Peace is impossible in the Mid­
dle East without sovereign and secure 
borders. · Sovereign and secure borders 
are impossible in an era of prolifera­
tion. 
With this in mind, this resolution, as 
I mentioned, calls the President of the 
United States, the signatories of the 
missile technology control regime, the 
participants in the Middle East Peace 
Conference and t'he international com­
munity in general to publicly condemn 
this delivery of scud C missiles and re­
lated technology to Syria. 
I am further asking that the United 
States Senate express its insistence 
that Syria demonstrate its desire for 
peace and acceptance of Israel's right 
to exist by refusing delivery of the mis­
siles. I am simply asking for a con­
fidence-building measure to reinforce 
the peace process. 
I for one am not convinced of Syria's 
desire for peace. I was not convinced by 
Farouk Chara's tirade in Madrid. I was 
not convinced by Syria's invasion of 
Lebanon and the curious security ar­
rangement by which Syrian dominance 
is established in Lebanon, but Shi'ite 
terrorists are still permitted to operate 
against Israel. I certainly have not 
been convinced by Hafez Assad's his­
toric rejection of peace with Israel and 
his support of terrorist organizations 
vehemently opposed to the current 
process. 
One such terrorist, George Habash, is 
convalescing at his home in Damascus 
following his highly publicized and jus­
tified expulsion from Paris. This gives 
me no comfort at all. I am not con­
vinced. 
However, I am convinced that pro­
liferation is incompatible with peace in 
the Middle East and with the security 
of Israel. I am also convinced that we 
can confront the problem of prolifera­
tion successfully only if we make it the 
central element of our relations with 
other nations. 
The merchants of death, such as 
North Korea, must be stopped. The 
arms sales of North Korea threaten to 
destabilize the Middle East arn;l threat­
en to derail the first real opportunity 
for peace since Camp David. The North 
Korean authorities are the last of a 
dying breed. They are contemptuous of 
the freedom of man and are contemp­
tuous of international stability. In 
fact, they thrive on oppression and in­
stability and terror. 
Their buyers must be stopped as well. 
Continuing to arm for war against Is­
rael is not a legitimate way for Syria 
to address its grievances with Israel. 
The Israeli Government has a right to 
be alarmed. The Israeli people have a 
right to be skeptical of the peace proc­
ess if it masks the intentions of Syria 
and sweeps massive arms purchases 
under the rug. 
How can we ask anyone in this coun­
try and in the international commu­
nity to take our efforts to stem pro­
liferation and established peace in the 
Middle East seriously, if we remain si­
lent on the course and cargo of one 
ship, the Dae Hung Ho? 
Mr. President, given the urgency of 
the situation, I am hopeful that we can 
act on this resolution, and I would ask 
unanimous consent that the resolution 
be referred to the appropriate commit­
tee. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
NOTICE OF HEARINGS 
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL 
RESOURCES 
Mr. JOHNSTON. Mr. President, I 
would like to announce for my col­
leagues and the public that an over­
sight hearing has been scheduled before 
the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources. 
The purpose of the oversight hearing 
is to receive testimony on the status of 
implementation of the Department of 
Energy's Civilian Nuclear Waste Pro­
gram mandated by the Nuclear Waste 
Policy Act of 1982 and its 1987 amend­
ments. 
The hearing will take place on Tues­
day, March 31, at 9:30 a.m. in room SD-
366 of the Dirksen Senate Office Build­
ing, First and C Streets NE., Washing­
ton, DC. 
Because of the limited time available 
for the hearing, witnesses may testify 
by invitation only. However, those 
wishing to submit written testimony 
for the printed hearing record should 
send their comments to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources, U.S. 
Senate, Washington, DC 20510. Atten­
tion: Mary Louise Wagner. 
For further information, please con­
tact Mary Louise Wagner of the com­
mittee staff at (202) 224-7569. 
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO 
MEET 
SUBCOMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENTAL 
PROTECTION 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Sub­
committee on Environmental Protec­
tion, Committee on Environment and 
Public Works, be authorized to meet 
during the session of the Senate on 
Thursday, March 5, beginning at 9:30 
a.m., to conduct a hearing on a new re­
cycling proposal for the Resource Con­
servation and Recovery Act reauthor­
ization. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
SUBCOMMITTEE ON CHILDREN, FAMILY, DRUGS 
AND ALCOHOLISM 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Sub­
committee on Children, Family, Drugs 
and Alcoholism of the Committee on 
Labor and Human Resources be author­
ized to meet during the session of the 
Senate on Thursday, March 5, 1992, at 
9:30 a.m., for a hearing on "Solutions 
for the New Economy: Jobs and Fami­
lies.'' 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Commit­
tee on Armed Services be authorized to 
meet on Thursday, March 5, 1992, at 
9:30 a.m., in open session, to receive 
testimony from the unified commands 
on their regional military strategy and 
operational requirements, and the 
amended Defense authorization request 
for fiscal year 1993 and the future year 
defense plan. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Commit­
tee on Foreign Relations be authorized 
to meet during the session of the Sen­
ate on Thursday, March 5, at 10 a.m. to 
hold a hearing on "Strategic Nuclear 
Reductions in a Post-Cold War World." 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN 
AFFAIRS 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Commit­
tee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs be authorized to meet during 
the session of the Senate on Thursday, 
March 5, 1992, at 10 a.m. to conduct a 
hearing on the "Resolution Trust Cor­
poration Operations and Its Affordable 
Housing Program." 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
SUBCOMMITTEE ON FEDERAL SERVICES, POST 
OFFICE, AND CIVIL SERVICE 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Sub­
committee on Federal Services, Post 
Office, and Civil Service, Committee on 

--- PDF PAGE 74 ---
4564 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
Governmental Affairs, be authorized to 
meet during the session of the Senate 
on Thursday, March 5, 1992, on S. 316, 
Garnishment Equalization Act of 1991. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
SUBCCOMMITTEE ON PUBLIC LANDS, NATIONAL 
PARKS, AND FORESTS 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that the Sub­
committee on Public Lands, National 
Parks, and Forests of the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources be 
authorized to meet during the session 
of the Senate on Thursday, March 5, 
1992, at 2 p.m., to receive testimony on 
S. 1755, a bill to reform the concessions 
policies of the National Park Service, 
and for other purposes. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS 
DESALINATION 
• Mr. SIMON. Mr. President, Last sum­
mer, the Environment and Public 
Works Committee held a hearing on 
my bill, S. 481, the Water Research Act. 
The purpose of this legislation is to 
once again recommit the Federal Gov­
ernment to supporting research and de­
velopment efforts with the ultimate 
aim of developing low-cost, affordable 
desalting technology. 
Many times I have laid out the argu­
ments as to why I believe this is a wise 
and valuable use of Government funds. 
An article from Engineering Times en­
titled, "Drought Whets Appetite for 
More Desalination," clearly dem­
onstrates I am not alone in this belief. 
I urge my colleagues to read the article 
and think of all the benefits to be 
gained by having this technology be 
made more widely available. 
I ask the attached article be entered 
into the RECORD. 
The article follows: 
[From Engineering Times, September 1991) 
DROUGHT WHETS APPETITE FOR MORE 
DESALINATION 
The continuing drought in the west and 
the search for new water in some eastern 
communities has Congress eyeing a renewed 
role for the federal government in desalina­
tion research. Legislation introduced in the 
House and Senate would increase funds for 
research and establish demonstration pro­
grams. 
Federally sponsored programs in the 1950s 
helped lead to the newer desalination tech­
nique of reverse osmosis and to advances in 
distillation, an older technology. Except for 
participation in some scattered demonstra­
tion projects, federal support for desalina­
tion research was discontinued in 1982. 
"Since then, only incremental refinements 
have been made to the existing technology," 
says Rep. Rick Boucher (D-Va.), chairman of 
the House Subcommittee on Science. 
The process of purifying salty or brackish 
water remains expensive. Desalting seawater 
generally costs S4 to $6 per 1000 gallons, 
while purifying brackish water can cost $1.50 
to $2.50. Worldwide, the two principal desali­
nation techniques used are multistage flash 
distillation (65%) and reverse osmosis (25%). 
Ion exchange, freezing, and electrodialysis 
are other methods. 
IMPROVEMENTS 
According to water experts, reverse osmo­
sis could be improved with advances in mem­
brane technology, among other things. 
Multistage filtration requires research and 
development to improve heat transfer, and 
upgrade the chemicals and corrosion-resist­
ant materials involved. 
A bill introduced by Sen. Paul Simon (D­
ill.) would authorize $90 million for three 
years of research and unspecified funds for 
an additional two years thereafter. It would 
direct the Interior Department to oversee a 
basic research program aimed at lowering 
the costs of desalination. 
After three years, the Interior Department 
would recommend which technologies should 
be demonstrated. A similar bill has been in­
troduced in the House. 
In testimony before the science sub­
committee, Wayne Marchant, chief of re­
search and laboratory services at the Bureau 
of Reclamation, said that while the Adminis­
tration supports the intent of the legisla­
tion, it was concerned with the amount and 
pace of funding. "It is important not to cre­
ate the impression that generous funding 
guarantees rapid progress," said Marchant. 
He recommended that demonstration 
projects move forward at the discretion of 
the Secretary of the Interior. 
In addition, Marchant said federal partici­
pation should be . considered only when the 
marketplace is unable or unwilling to ad­
vance technology into commercial use. He 
proposed the federal government's role be 
one of guidance direction, and prevention of 
duplicate efforts. 
A number of thirsty communities in Cali­
fornia have undertaken desalination 
projects, including Santa Barbara and Santa 
Catalina Island. Santa Barbara recently ap­
proved construction of a $25-million plant 
that may provide 2.4 billion gallons of water 
per year. 
In the international arena, the potential 
for regional conflicts stemming from water 
shortages points to a need for advances in 
desalination technology, say water experts. 
The Middle East has almost 60% of the 
world's desalination capacity.• 
INTERNATIONAL PEN PALS 
• Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I would 
like to call the attention of my Senate 
colleagues to the fine work being done 
by the Loudoun Country Day School of 
Leesburg, VA, in support of Inter­
national Pen Pals. 
These young people are interested in 
corresponding with their peers around 
the world, and in encouraging all 
young Americans to become involved 
in this worthwhile endeavor. 
In these times of remarkable change 
in Eastern Europe, the former Soviet 
Union and elsewhere, who among us 
does not believe in the critical impor­
tance of communication among the 
world's peoples? 
Who doubts that when we fail to 
communicate, we risk dire con­
sequences-particularly those of us 
who have lived through the rise of the 
nuclear age, and four decades of the 
cold war? 
And who would question that, al­
though that long superpower rivalry 
may have ended, the need to under­
stand and tolerate other cultures is, if 
anything, greater today? 
The fine art of letter-writing-like 
language itself-is best learned at a 
young age, and I commend these 
Loudoun Country Day School students 
for their interest in it. 
While modern communications tech­
nology is, perhaps, a blessing, it is best 
for us all to practice those skills re­
quired to express ourselves by letter. 
This is not simply a matter of senti­
mentality or nostalgia among the older 
generation. 
The telephone is fast, easy, effi­
cient-but fleeting. 
A letter, on the other hand, is deeply 
personal and lasting. It is an ideal 
means of building a bridge of under­
standing among people-even between 
individuals who have never met. 
I am reminded of a phrase used by 
President Woodrow Wilson in Paris 
after World War I had ended. 
Wilson said: 
I have felt that quick comradeship of let­
ters which is a very real comradeship, be­
cause it is a comradeship of thought and of 
principle. 
Wilson was speaking of his written 
correspondence with Frenchmen whom, 
until that time, he had never met. 
Today, more than 70 years later, I 
think Wilson's phrase-"quick com­
radeship"-still aptly describes the 
special relationship that a program 
such as International Pen Pals seeks to 
encourage. 
As Wilson knew, a letter is a special 
and a powerful instrument that can 
leap geographical barriers, overcome 
political boundaries, and even mend 
damaged friendships. 
Presidents Thomas Jefferson and 
John Adams worked hard together to 
win independence for this country, but 
partisan differences later came be­
tween them. 
They remained estranged for years. 
Finally, after both men had retired­
Adams to Quincy, MA, and Jefferson to 
Monticello-they began to write letters 
to one another. 
They covered every subject you can 
imagine: Gardening, horseback riding, 
even sneezing as a cure for hiccups. But 
they also touched on important, sub­
stantive issues-as President Reagan 
once described it, "the last thoughts, 
the final hopes of two old men, two 
great patriarchs, for the country that 
they had helped to found and loved so 
deeply.'' 
It carries me back, 
Jefferson said of this correspondence 
with his friend, 
to the times when, beset with difficulties and 
dangers, we were fellow laborers in the same 
cause, struggling for what is most valuable 
to man: his right to self-government. 
Mr. President, International Pen 
Pals is a valuable and worthwhile ex-

--- PDF PAGE 75 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4565 
periment, and I wish these students 
from Virginia well.• 
A CITIZEN OF NEW JERSEY CALLS 
FOR U.S.-EC COOPERATION 
• Mr. BRADLEY. Mr. President. I was 
pleased to see a recent article by Mr. 
Ben Palumbo in Roll Call, our own 
local paper on Capitol Hill. Ben is a fa­
miliar face to most veterans of the con­
gressional process, but he is especially 
well-known to those of us who rep­
resent New Jersey. 
He has had a strong personal, profes ­
sional, and political relationship with 
our State throughout his life. In addi­
tion, Mr. Palumbo has been active in 
the international sphere advising the 
delegation of the European Community 
in Washington on trade issues, and 
counseling the California Foundation 
on the Environment and the Economy 
which sponsors conferences between 
United States business, political and 
union leaders and their counterparts in 
the European Community. 
I think this article presents some 
provocative views that deserve serious 
consideration by U.S. trade policy ne­
gotiators. 
Mr. President, I ask that the text of 
Mr. Ben Palumbo's article appear at 
this point in the RECORD. 
The article follows: 
[From the Roll Call] 
AFTER MAASTRICHT: EUROPE ' S GREATER 
OPPORTUNITY FOR UNITED STATES 
(By Benjamin L. Palumbo ) 
What was the meaning of the summit that 
the 12 nations of the European Community 
held in Maastricht in the Netherlands in De­
cember 1991? 
The waning of nationalism? The end of ide ­
ology? Acceptance of a new international 
economic reality? Victory for the farsighted 
statesmen, from both sides of the Atlantic, 
who believed in a united Europe even as it 
lay devastated, depleted, dependent? 
Symbolically, it was all of the above. And 
more. Imagine that the Franco-Prussian War 
of 1870 began a political "Ice Age" in Europe. 
That it unleashed glaciers which expanded 
inexorably, accelerated by the two World 
Wars, until they blanketed Europe, leaving 
the continent prostrate, its politics frozen 
into a left-right ice mold. 
But then imagine the first hint of a thaw: 
a tiny drop of water created by the warmth 
of the U.S. Marshall Plan. The drop turned 
into a rivulet with the formation of the Eu­
ropean Coal and Steel Community in 1951, 
and by the time of the signing of the Treaty 
of Rome in 1957 creating the European Eco­
nomic Community, the glaciers began their 
long retreat. 
Today the Ice Age is over, and throughout 
Europe a new political spring is evident as 
the success of the Maastricht summit and 
the near -completion of the economic inte­
gration plan targeted for later this year at­
test . 
Unfolding before us is one of the greatest 
events of our time, perhaps eclipsing the col ­
lapse of communism. 
We Americans seem unable to grasp fully 
what has happened. Perhaps this is because 
it does not have the dramatic impact of the 
fall of the Berlin Wall, and we tend to suffer 
from a certain impatience with things that 
take time. 
Also, we are still mostly an untraveled lot. 
Too many of our citizens haven 't seen the re­
birth of Europe; nor have America 's media 
give adequate coverage to this phenomenon. 
To the extent we have thought at all about 
international relations , we have for too long 
been focused on the Cold War , the Middle 
East, and , lately, our trade problems with 
Japan. In fact, we seem today to be mesmer­
ized by the Japanese challenge. 
But the rise of a united Europe is an event 
of far greater importance to the United 
States than the frictions evident in our rela­
tionship with Japan . 
The aggregate numbers are striking. In 
1991, the flow of visitors between the U.S. 
and the EC was 14.1 million; between the 
U.S . and Japan, 4.3 million . Two-way invest­
ment between the U.S. and the EC totaled 
$417.9 billion; between the U.S. and Japan , 
$104.5 billion . Two-way trade between the 
U.S. and the EC was $190 billion; between the 
U.S . and Japan, $132 billion. 
Very few Americans know we have a trade 
surplus with Europe, while everyone knows 
we have a deficit with the Japanese. 
The figures cited above do not include 
those for the United States and the six mem­
ber countries of the European Free Trade 
Area (EFTA): Austria, Finland, Iceland , Nor­
way , Sweden, and Switzerland . As EFTA is 
on the verge of joining the single market of 
the EC, the imbalance is even greater. With­
out EFT A, the EC is big enough-340 million 
well-educated, highly skilled, healthy, pro­
ductive people . With EFTA, we will be look­
ing at a free market of almost 400 million 
people with whom our relationship has been 
longer, deeper, and closer than with any 
other part of the world ; with whom our eco­
nomic and trade relations have been easier ; 
and from whom we have absorbed much of 
what we are in law, language, culture, and 
economics. 
It is not Japan bashing to recall both these 
numbers and the depth of our European rela­
tionships. Rather, it is a summons to reality . 
The point is that the opportunities and the 
challenges for the US are greater with Eu­
rope than with Japan . And dealing with Ja­
pan 's far more closed economy and anti-com­
petitive economic arrangements may be ac- . 
complished more easily by cooperation be­
tween the US and the EC than by uncoordi­
nated retaliatory measures. 
For example, anti-trust has been roo t ed in 
our history for almost a century. The EC is 
now vigorously applying what it calls "com ­
petition policy " against excessive market 
concentrations. Our mutual interests , our 
deep interdependence, our shared under ­
standings should allow us to negotiate an 
agreement on rules of competition for all to 
play by, as indeed the EC has already pro ­
posed . 
Should the Japanese wish to participate , 
well and good. But should we agree and they 
opt out, the consequences would be serious . 
A binding agreement between the US and the 
EC resting on a vigorous antitrust policy 
would , by definition, be the rules for the 
richest market in the world--050 million con­
sumers. Thus, the US/EC rules would be ev­
eryone 's rules ; those who ignored them 
would do so at great cost . 
The significance of the Maastricht summit 
is that the ability of the EC to act and nego­
tiate as a unit has taken a quantum leap. 
This is not to say that a monolith has been 
created . Its political and economic leaders 
will no more march in lock-step than do our 
own. But just as the effect of our Constitu-
tion was to strengthen the central govern­
ment by diminishing, but not eliminating, 
the power states held under the old Articles 
of Confederation , the effect of Maastricht is 
similar. 
The 1957 Treaty of Rome was the product 
of far-sighted politicians who ached to end 
the European cycles of war and destruction , 
and who pulled their business leaders along . 
But the single European act of 1986 which 
strengthened the institutions of the EC, and 
the establishment of the goal of a truly inte ­
grated economy by 1992, were examples of 
Europe's business leadership reacting to the 
threat of international competition and 
pushing their political leaders along . 
What is important to us is that the com­
petition about which they are most con­
cerned is not American but Japanese; not be­
cause the American competition is weak, but 
because Europeans and Americans have a 
more common understanding about the rules 
of competition and how economic activity 
should take place . 
'I'he Maastricht summit reflects an enor­
mous determination to achieve European 
unity . It sets goals for monetary union , and 
a single currency. It establishes a framework 
for a common foreign poli cy and ultimately 
a common defense policy . And it does all this 
while carefully preserving the rights of the 
EC's member-states through requirements 
for a weighed majority or unanimity on im­
portant decisions . 
The skeptics have been confounded . Now 
the oblivious must awaken to this new Euro­
pean reality and seek a partnership in which 
we together face the world 's problems . 
BANK AND THRIFT DISCLOSURE 
ACT OF 1992 
• Mr. PRYOR. Mr. President , I am 
proud to be an original cosponsor to 
the Bank and Thrift Disclosure Act of 
1992 because I believe it will provide 
the sunshine that will help disinfect 
the rotten savings and loan mess which 
our country now faces. It is estimated 
that taxpayers will eventually have to 
spend $200 billion to clean up the S&L 
mess. This is an enormous amount, by 
anyone's standards. 
This bill will require public disclo­
sure of the regulators ' examination re­
ports on savings and loans that later 
failed and were sold in the 1988 deals. 
Also, it will prohibit the FDIC from se­
cretly settling lawsuits arising from 
the failure of those institutions . 
Making the examination reports of 
failed institutions public will provide 
valuable information which could help 
us learn how to prevent future failures. 
Moreover , the provisions will give reg­
ulators greater incentive to promptly 
correct problems they find at institu­
tions, since the public wiil be able to 
hold them accountable for failures that 
could have been prevented. 
By throwing open the windows and 
letting in the light. we can expose the 
S&L board members and officers who 
were allowed to recklessly toss money 
into the hands of their rich, greedy 
friends. Money insured by taxpayers 
was used to finance high risk deals. 
Once 1980's high times hit hard times 
these deals went bad and the U.S. Gov-

--- PDF PAGE 76 ---
4566 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
ernment was called in to bail them out. 
We can also expose the regulators who 
ignored tell-tale signs of shady deals 
and imminent failure. 
The Government has sued some of 
the people responsible for this mess. 
However, all too often these lawsuits 
end in secret settlements for far less 
money than was specified in the origi­
nal suit. Neither the regulator's re­
ports nor the information surrounding 
the settlement is available to the pub­
lic at this time. The "Bank and Thrift 
Disclosure Act of 1992" will remedy 
that situation. 
Settlements can be in the best inter­
est of the taxpayers in some cases, but 
as long as they are footing the bill for 
the cleanup, taxpayers have a right to 
know the details of these settlements. 
American taxpayers deserve respect, 
that is why I have introduced the 
"Taxpayers Bill of Rights 2" and why I 
fully support disclosure of S&L exam­
ination reports. We have already 
passed along a great debt to our chil­
dren and grandchildren. It is time we 
took this small but important step to 
bring everything into the light of day, 
to prevent future failtures, and to stop 
escalating cleanup costs.• 
A POLITICAL HISTORY OF THE 
CIVIL WAR IN ANGOLA, 1974-1990 
• Mr. PRYOR. Mr. President, recently 
William Martin James III, an associate 
professor of political science at Hen­
derson State University in 
Arkadelphia, AR, announced publica­
tion of his book, "A Political History 
of the Civil War in Angola, 1974-1990." 
This book, ·published by the Institute 
for Soviet and East European Studies 
at the University of Miami, focuses on 
the political history of Angola and the 
possibilities that the country can be­
come an economic power because of its 
large land area and resources and small 
population. 
Martin James holds bachelor of arts 
and master of arts degrees in political 
science from the University of Arkan­
sas and a doctorate degree from the 
Catholic University here in Washing­
ton. 
It has been my good fortune to know 
Martin James and his wife, Susie, who 
works in my Little Rock office, and 
their family for a number of years. 
Martin is an aggressive college profes­
sor who daily strives to instill in his 
students a zest for learning. 
I commend Martin Jam es first-of 
what I am certain will be many-book 
to my colleagues, to foreign policy an­
alysts, African area specialists, and to 
scholars of postcolonial history.• 
REFERENDUM IN BOSNIA-
HERCEGOVINA 
• Mr. DECONCINI. Mr. President, last 
weekend the Government of the Yugo­
slav Republic of Bosnia-Hercegovina 
organized a referendum in order to put 
to the people of that Republic the ques­
tion of where their future lies-in a 
new Yugoslav State or as an independ­
ent and sovereign Republic. 
Following a meeting I had in Wash­
ington in February with the President 
of Bosnia-Hercegovina, Alija 
Izetbegovic, Representative STENY 
HOYER and I-as cochairs of the Hel­
sinki Commission-decided to accept 
an invitation from the Government of 
that Republic to send members of the 
Commission staff to observe the ref­
erendum. David Evans, senior adviser 
to the Commission, and Bob Hand, the 
staff member responsible for Yugoslav 
affairs, spent a total of about 5 days in 
Bosnia-Hercegovina, exammmg the 
overall political and economic situa­
tion in that Republic in addition to ob­
serving the referendum itself. 
Unfortunately, during the last day of 
their visit, the capital of Bosnia­
Hercegovina, Sarajevo, was surrounded 
by barricades set up by militant Ser­
bian groups who are opposed to any 
separation of the Republic from the Re­
public of Serbia, regardless of the will 
of the people. These groups boycotted 
the referendum, and, when realizing 
that the results of the referendum 
would state clear support for independ­
ence, they decided to resort to threats 
and perhaps even the use of force to 
pressure the Government of Bosnia­
Hercegovina to nullify the results. 
In light of this situation, the Com­
mission staff and other foreign observ­
ers were unable to give any prelimi­
nary report on their findings before 
leaving Sarajevo. Indeed, their last day 
in that city was spent trying to learn 
how they were going to be able to de­
part safely in light of the barricades 
and widespread shooting, which led to 
a number of deaths. 
The two Commission observers never­
theless had prepared a statement for 
that day, March 2, written before the 
barricades went up. I would like to in­
sert this statement into the RECORD, 
because it explains what they did, 
where they went, whom they met, and 
what they saw. Their basic conclusion 
is that the referendum was a legiti­
mate expression of the will of the ma­
jority of the people of that Republic. 
In the very near future, the Commis­
sion will release a full report on the 
referendum, how it was conducted, and 
its results. In the meantime, I thought 
it important to share these initial con­
clusions with my colleagues, because, 
while most of the barricades have been 
removed, tensions are still high in 
Bosnia-Hercegovina, and full-scale vio­
lence could erupt at any time. 
The population of Bosnia-
Hercegovina is extremely diverse-is 
has been called a Yugoslavia within 
Yugoslavia-and the Republic will have 
to find a consensus among its people on 
how it will now proceed. But it is im­
portant for us to realize that, no mat-
ter how one views the conflict in Yugo­
slavia, Bosnia-Hercegovina has in no 
way been its source. Instead, that Re­
public has been trying to deal with the 
realities of Yugoslavia's breakup in 
order to keep from becoming the con­
flict's bloodiest victim. The leaders of 
Bosnia-Hercegovina, I believe, are 
seeking to maintain the peace, and to 
establish a democratic political system 
in which all peoples, regardless of na­
tionality, can live together. 
Times will likely continue to be dif­
ficult for Bosnia-Hercegovina, which 
has no history has an independent 
state. It therefore deserves our full 
support. I can think of no better way to 
express this support than to respond 
positively to the results of the ref eren­
dum and recognize the independence of 
Bosnia-Hercegovina. Those countries 
that have recognized Slovenia and Cro­
atia should recognize Bosnia­
Hercegovina as well as Macedonia, and 
the United States should follow suit. 
We should also encourage as best we 
can the further democratic develop­
ment of that Republic, which will be 
essential if the main nationalities 
there-Moslems, Serbs, and Croats-are 
to find real peace with each other. 
STATEMENT BY THE U.S. HELSINKI COMMISSION 
OBSERVERS OF THE REFERENDUM IN BOSNIA­
HERCEGOVINA 
SARAJEVO, March 2, 1992.-At the conclu­
sion of their five-day visit to Bosnia­
Hercegovina to observe that republic's ref­
erendum on independence, David Evans and 
Robert Hand, members of the staff of the 
U.S. Commission on Security and Coopera­
tion in Europe (Helsinki Commission), made 
the following statement: 
"We came to observe the referendum in 
Bosnia-Hercegovina at the direction of Rep­
resentative STENY HOYER and Senator DEN­
NIS DECONCINI, Co-Chairs of the Helsinki 
Commission, who have been deeply con­
cerned that the senseless conflict which has 
tragically torn Yugoslavia apart might 
spread to this diverse and centrally located 
republic. Reports of tensions between ethnic 
groups in some regions of the republics, as 
well as of possible outside agitation of these 
tensions by neighboring republics, added 
greatly to this concern. 
"Our presence here, therefore, intended to 
do two things: to help ensure through inter­
national observation that the referendum 
was conducted smoothly, freely, and openly; 
and to demonstrate the strong interest of 
the Helsinki Commission in seeing the fu­
ture of Bosnia-Hercegovina beyond the ref­
erendum determined in a peaceful and demo­
cratic way. This, the Commission believes, 
can best be done by respecting the principles 
of the Helsinki Final Act, especially those 
relating to respect for obligations under 
international law; the inviolability of fron­
tiers; non-use of force; respect for human 
rights and freedoms; and the equal rights 
and self-determination of peoples. These 
principles should be fully applied by the 
Yugoslav republics in their relations with 
each other, just as they are in relations be­
tween CSCE states. 
"During the course of our visit, we met 
with political leaders at the republic and 
local levels who represent, combined, the in­
terests of all three main national groups re­
siding in Bosnia-Hercegovina. Among these 

--- PDF PAGE 77 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4567 
were several members of the collective presi­
dency of the republic, the mayors of Banja 
Luka and Mostar and representatives of var­
ious political parties. We also held talks 
with members of the Office for Foreign Ob­
servers of the republic's Referendum Com­
mission, as well as with observers from the 
European Community and other concerned 
countries. We also spoke with several private 
individuals, such as journalists and shop­
keepers, asking them their views on the ref­
erendum and the future of Bosnia­
Hercegovina. On the days of the referendum, 
we visited many polling stations in and 
around Sarajevo, Banja Luka, and Mostar, 
and in several towns and villages in between. 
"It is, of course, much too early to draw 
final conclusions on this referendum and the 
manner in which it was conducted. We have 
been seeking the observations of others to 
add to our own, and the Commission will 
issue a report on our findings in Washington 
in the near future. 
"We can, however, factually state some of 
the things we saw or heard while observing 
the referendum. Generally, the media in 
Bosnia-Hercegovina seems to be relatively 
free and open, allowing various views in the 
referendum to be expressed. We also felt that 
the referendum was properly organized and 
carried out by the authorities, allowing the 
public a free choice. We did note, however, 
that these conditions varied somewhat from 
one region of the republic to another. 
"We were concerned about the impact of 
the call of the Serbian Democratic Party to 
boycott the referendum, and the refusal of 
some officials to cooperate in preparing for 
and administering the referendum. These ac­
tions may have intimidated eligible voters, 
especially ethnic Serbs, who may otherwise 
have participated in the referendum, and 
made it more difficult for many others who 
did intend to participate. Among the regions 
where we observed the referendum, these ac­
tions seemed to have had a particularly neg­
ative impact in and around Banja Luka. 
While we could not agree with the reasons 
for such actions, we appreciated the willing­
ness of those supporting them to explain 
them to us, and we also noted their calls on 
their followers not to disrupt the referen­
dum. 
"Unfortunately, the period leading up to 
and including the days of the referendum 
was held was marred by violence, which in­
cluded bombing and shootings, the wide­
scale tearing down of posters and other in­
timidating public activities, which impacted 
negatively on the referendum. Despite these 
obstacles, the final result of the referendum, 
based on our own observations, should be 
considered a legitimate reflection of the will 
of the majority of the people of this republic. 
"With the referendum now over, we hope 
the international community and the other 
Yugoslav republics will acknowledge the re­
sults and respond to them positively and in 
accordance with the Helsinki Principles. 
Recognizing that significant differences still 
remain within Bosnia-Hercegovina, we hope 
that all sides will seek solutions through 
constructive dialogue and democratic proc­
esses-not through confrontation and vio­
lence. We do believe that these differences 
can be overcome if there is, on all sides, the 
desire and determination to do so. 
"Finally we would like to thank the Office 
for Foreign Observers for facilitating our 
visit, and Portuguese Ambassador Moriera 
de Andrade, who coordinated the work of the 
various observer delegations in a way that 
maximized their effectiveness. And we want 
to thank all the people of Bosnia-
Hercegovina whom we met, who made our 
stay so enjoyable and informative. We wish 
all the people of this republic a peaceful, 
democratic and prosperous future. Thank 
you."• 
THE 50TH WEDDING ANNIVERSARY 
OF DORIS AND PHIL BECHTEL 
• Mr. D'AMATO. Mr. President, I rise 
today to congratulate Doris and Phil 
Bechtel on the occasion of their 50th 
wedding anniversary. This is a mile­
stone that very few couples are able to 
attain. Fifty years ago today, at 7 p.m. 
at St. Matthew's Lutheran Church in 
Baltimore, MD, Doris and Phil were 
married. After the wedding and recep­
tion, they left on a 2 a.m. train for a 3-
week honeymoon to Charleston, SC, 
where Phil, an Army lieutenant, was 
stationed before going to the Pacific. 
This Saturday, March 7, Doris, known 
as Lubby, and Phil will be celebrating 
this memorable occasion with their 
family and friends at the Johns Hop­
kins University Club in Baltimore, MD. 
March 1942 was a very dark and un­
certain time for the young people of 
our country. We had recently been 
shocked by the Japanese sneak attack 
on Pearl Harbor, and we were engaged 
in global war against massive totali­
tarian forces. Our young people, such 
as Doris and Phil, needed a great deal 
of courage and faith to start a life to­
gether, but they had this, and were suc­
cessful. 
I am especially glad that they did, 
since their son Phil, is my legislative 
director, and their daughter-in-law 
Anne Miano, works on the Senate Ap­
propriations Committee. Doris and 
Phil are fortunate to have another son, 
Jim, and his wife Peggy, who live on 
Maryland's Eastern Shore, and are the 
proud grandparents of Laura Ann, age 
9, Emily .Louise, almost 3, and Matthew 
Edward, 16 months. 
Once again, congratulations and best 
wishes to the Bechtels, their family 
and friends.• 
TRIBUTE TO LEO V. DONOHUE AND 
HENRY J. BECKER, JR. 
•Mr. LIEBERMAN. Mr. President, 
today the friends of Leo V. Donohue 
and Henry J. Becker, Jr., will be gath­
ering at Capra's Restaurant in 
Newington, CT, to honor the pair's 
quarter century of service to the people 
of our great State. 
Leo and Henry, a Democrat and a Re­
publican, respectively, were Connecti­
cut's State auditors for the past 25 
years. They came into State govern­
ment on the same day, July 1, 1967, and 
they retired together last Friday, Feb­
ruary 28. During those years, the two 
compiled a record of tremendous ac­
complishment. Oftentimes they were a 
thorn in the side of agency heads, Gov­
ernors, and other public officials. But 
the pain for them usually spelled relief 
for the State's taxpayers. With sharp 
pencils, calculators, and a keen eye for 
inefficient, improper, or illegal behav­
ior, Leo and Henry scrutinized vir­
tually every nook and cranny of State 
government and issued detailed, public 
reports about what was wrong, and 
what should be done to correct it. 
It is probably impossible to calculate 
how much money Leo Donohue and 
Henry Becker saved the taxpayers of 
Connecticut by exposing waste, fraud, 
and abuse, but it is fair to say that if 
they had been paid on a percentage 
basis, they would both be multimillion­
aires today. From keeping an eye on 
no-show employees to tracing Federal 
dollars inappropriately spent on water 
coolers, Leo and Henry have been the 
eyes and ears for the public, shedding 
light on hidden problems and urging 
traditionally slow bureaucracies to 
move quickly to fix what's broken. 
Mr. President, negative stories about 
State employees are legion in news­
papers and on radio and television 
these days. Some criticism is certainly 
deserved, but by and large State em­
ployees are decent, hard-working peo­
ple who labor anonymously for the 
public good. To those who are skeptical 
about government workers, I hold up 
the example of Leo V. Donohue and 
Henry J. Becker, Jr., as examples of 
what is truly good about public service 
and the people engaged in our profes­
sion. 
Working hard, without the fanfare 
many public officials enjoy, Leo and 
Henry simply did their jobs, and did 
them better than anyone could have 
expected. 
Mr. President, at this point in the 
RECORD, I would like to insert an excel­
lent profile of Leo Donohue and Henry 
Becker that was published by Lisa 
Marie Pane of the Associated Press on 
February 24. 
The profile follows: 
NATION'S ONLY AUDITING Duo BALANCED 
POLITICS WITH NUMBER CRUNCHING 
(By Lisa Marie Pane) 
HARTFORD, CT.-If a television show were 
made about Connecticut's two state audi­
tors, Leo V. Donohue and Henry J. Becker 
Jr. could play one's Joe Friday to the other's 
Bill Gannon: purveyors of truth in govern­
ment who went after "just the facts." 
For a quarter century, the nation's only 
auditing duo snared bad guys in their drag­
net of fiscal probes. 
They caught a governor using federal 
money to buy water coolers. They nailed a 
state treasurer for allowing his wife and 
daughter to bill thousands of dollars to his 
state telephone credit card. 
They uncovered evidence that the head 
veterans official had used state money to 
buy a waterbed, bar stools and other furnish­
ings for his home and then watched when he 
resigned in disgrace. 
They nailed a deputy commissioner at the 
Department of Motor Vehicles for failing to 
show up for work for long stretches at a 
time, thanks to an eagle-eyed staff auditor 
who noticed the guy's parking space was al­
ways empty. 
But never, it seemed, did this Democrat­
and-Republican team allow political leanings 

--- PDF PAGE 78 ---
4568 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
to get in the way of their jobs. No one was 
spared their scrutiny. 
Yes, ma'am. Just the facts, ma'am . 
Leo and Henry . Henry and Leo. Few talk 
about one without mentioning the other in 
the same sentence. 
Donohue's wiry with a shock of gray hair; 
Becker is stocky with baby-fine hair that is 
slicked back and thinning . Both live in 
Avon. They started the same day July 1, 
1967. And now they 're retiring together , on 
Friday. 
Their doors were always open to reporters 
and politicians , alike. Even the door between 
their two attached offices has always been 
open , so Donohue can see Becker, and Becker 
can see Donohue . 
They 've been separated just once in that 
time for two years when Donohue became 
the state 's finance director for Gov. John 
Dempsey . 
Connecticut is the only state in the nation 
that appoints two state auditors , one a Re­
publican and the other a Democrat , to look 
over the books. 
Becker and Donohue say an accounting 
background is helpful. But political insight, 
knowledge of the inner workings of govern­
men t and a sleuth 's curiosity about seem­
in gly inconsequential details like virgin 
snow covering a deputy commissioner's 
parking space are the real keys to doing the 
job right . 
" You don 't just look at the numbers ," 
Donohue said. 
Donohue , 67, the Democratic member of 
t he combo who is noted for his dry wit and 
sense of t he one -liner , once quipped : " My 
wife calls us Goody Four Shoes. We walk 
soft ly and carry a big pen cil. " 
Becker , a 63-year -old Republi can and the 
mor e serious and reserved of the two with a 
fondness for Ameri can histor y, once framed 
the motto : " Old auditors never die. They 
just become unbalanced ." 
The y'v e scored a few vi ctories during their 
t enur e a s Connecticut 's two top financial 
wat chdogs . And along the way , they 've had 
their share of very public and very heated 
run -ins with state officials from governor on 
down. 
Gov. Ella T. Grasso , a Democrat who 
served from 1975 to 1980, was once criticized 
by the auditors for using federal money to 
buy water coolers. She would grow exas­
perated by their meticulous and unflagging 
quest for financial truth. 
"Anytime I see you two , it 's trouble, " 
Grasso used to say . 
"She did not graciously accept crit icism, " 
Donohue said recently . ~ 
Becker hasn 't had it easy wit h members of 
his party either. 
There 's been a Republican governo r just 
four years in the time Becker has served. 
And that one , former Gov . Thomas J. 
Meskill , now a federal judge , never seemed 
pleased with his fellow Republican from the 
start . 
Meskill had campa igned on a platform 
calling for the auditors duties to be expanded 
from financial audits to both financial and 
performance audits. Then , when he became 
governor , he vetoed legislation that would 've 
done just that. 
Becker didn 't hide his displeasure . " I pub­
licly said the Democrats ignored this for 
years and now he didn 't want it either, " 
Becker recalled. 
"From that point on, things were pretty 
cool ," he said . 
If Donohue and Becker consistently won 
over one group , it was the Capitol press 
corps. 
"Henry was never too fond of Meskill. Leo 
called it as it was right through the Demo­
crats, " says James Mutrie Jr., a retired Cap­
itol reporter who has known the two for dec­
ades. 
The pair rarely, if ever , independently 
tipped off reporters to scandals in state gov­
ernment. But even before state freedom of 
information laws were enacted, Becker and 
Donohue never denied the media access to 
their public records. And , when asked about 
one indiscretion or another , both were can­
did in their remarks. 
They found the media helpful in applying 
pressure to errant officials . 
In the early 1970s, they issued a report crit­
ical of the Department of Children and 
Youth Services . But they never heard back 
from the commissioner until six months 
later when a newspaper reporter wrote about 
it. 
The article was out on the newsstands at 
noon. "By 1:30 we had a response ," Donohue 
said. 
" We only have the power to recommend ," 
Becker explained. 
It's the media who can help push their 
cause. But Becker 's and Donohue 's frankness 
often sparked bitter battles with the latest 
public official whose questionable conduct 
was aired in the press . 
The pair 's run-ins with former Treasurer 
Henry E. Parker were especially notorious . 
Parker a Democrat whose wife and daugh­
ter were found to have used his state tele­
phone credit card to bill more than $2,000 
worth of calls, and who also was criticized 
for propo sing legislation that some said 
would guaran t ee state jobs to political ap­
pointees even after he left state government 
once fir ed off a s cathing , four-page letter to 
Becker . 
"With you, there always seems to be two 
levels of communication . There is, on the 
one hand , the high sounding rhetoric of help­
fulness and concern contained in your offi­
cial corr espondence and reports; then there 
is your character assassination approach in 
'soul baring' sessions you have exhibited 
with selective members of the news media, " 
Parker wrote . 
Later, Parker was much more complimen­
tary . 
" It's a comfort to me that they are there ," 
Parker was once quoted as saying . 
Connecticut has had an auditors' office 
since the 1600s. The dual-party positions 
were created in 1702. Most other states ap­
point or elect just one auditor, where often 
the office is subjected to attacks that par­
tisanship is the chief motivator . 
Becker and Donohue are credited with 
being fair and with ushering their office of 80 
staff auditors into modern times. 
"They have created that institution ," said 
Lorraine M. Aronson, the former welfare 
commissioner and now the governor 's deputy 
budget director . " I've had good audits and 
bad audits from them and never once did I 
think I was not treated fairly. " 
Donohue , who has an accounting degree, 
first joined state government in 1945 when he 
was a 20-year-old kid fresh out of the Army . 
He had never gotten a driver's license until 
the day he was offered a job as a driver with 
the Department of Motor Vehicles. 
Along the way , he 's been a state budget ex­
aminer, and an advisor to governors and top 
political leaders. 
Becker , whose educational background is 
in public administration, has worked for the 
state for more than 30 years, starting with 
the former Highway Department. He also 
worked for the Greater Hartford Chamber of 
Commerce and the Connecticut Public Ex­
penditures Council. 
They are . both fonts of knowledge about 
the political characters who have made their 
way through Connecticut government his­
tory. 
"This was a splendid marriage that honors 
everything good with state government and 
public service," says Charles F.J . Morse, a 
former Capitol r~porter and now an aide to 
Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. 
So far, the pair hasn't had any confronta­
tions with the often-combative Weicker, a 
Republican-since turned-independent whom 
both knew when he was a freshman state leg­
islator in 1963. 
"I'm sure at some point in four years, if we 
were here, we would run into some problems 
because .we've certainly had them with every 
other governor, " Becker said. 
So any parting advice for their successors, 
whoever they may be from the scads of poli­
ticians who are clamoring for the post? 
The duo who gave state officials advice for 
decades whether they wanted it or not were 
uncharacteristically reserved ,... 
" Only if they ask for it, " Donohue said. 
" Yeah ," Becker said.• 
RECOGNIZING THE APPOINTMENT 
OF GREGORY L. HERSHBERGER 
• Mr. D'AMATO. Mr. President , I rise 
today to note the appointment of Greg­
ory L. Hershberger as the first warden 
of the Metropolitan Detention Center 
[MDC] in Brooklyn , NY. Greg has been 
a career Bureau employee for 14 years 
and brings outstanding leadership ex­
perience to his new assignment. 
Mr. Hershberger was born in Lincoln , 
NE, in 1949. He holds a bachelor's de­
gree in sociology from the University 
of Nebraska (1971) and a master's de­
gree in criminal justice from Washing­
ton State University (1978). He has held 
previous Bureau of Prisons assign­
ments, at MCC Chicago, . ILL; USP 
Terra Haute, IN; Central Office, Wash­
ington, DC, associate warden, FCI El 
Reno , OK; and warden, FCI Otisville, 
NY. Prior to joining the Bureau of 
Prisons, he was a Nebraska State pro­
bation officer. 
Gregory Hershberger has had an out­
standing career with the Federal Bu­
reau of prisons and I commend him on 
his new appointment.• 
HATE CRIMES 
• Mr. SIMON. Mr. President, in 1990, I 
sponsored the Hate Crimes Statistics 
Act , which required the Attorney Gen­
eral to systematically collect hate 
crime statistics that will provide infor­
mation on trends and help us to better 
predict and prevent such unconscion­
able acts. Hatred based on race, reli­
gion , ethnic background, and sexual 
orientation seems to be growing. Over 
the next few months, I intend to speak 
out often on this subject, bringing to 
the Senate 's attention a few of the 
tragic incidents of serious concern to 
us all. 
Today, I rise to address sp~cifically 
the murder of Yasuo Kato, a Japanese 

--- PDF PAGE 79 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4569 
businessman in Camarillo, CA. Mr. 
Kato was stabbed to death in his ga­
rage with an 8-inch hunting knife on 
February 24, just over a week ago, as 
he was unloading groceries from his 
car. Two weeks earlier, an unidentified 
white male had confronted Mr. Kato in 
his own home, demanding money and 
blaming Japan for the recession and for 
the loss of his job. According to the 
victim's son, Toshiyuki Kato, as the 
man left he screamed, "I'm going to 
kill you. I'm going to get you. I know 
where you live." The victim was a mar­
tial arts champion who once had in­
structed Japanese police cadets. Yet, 
he died without any signs of attempt­
ing to defend himself. 
This incident reminds us of the case 
of Vincent Chin, a Chinese-American, 
who was beaten to death with baseball 
bats by two unemployed auto workers 
in Detroit in the early 1980's. The rea­
son for Mr. Chin's violent death was 
also the belief by the killers that he 
was Japanese and had somehow caused 
their unemployment. Fears have been 
voiced in the past few weeks that cur­
rent anti-Japanese rhetoric based upon 
trade friction might encourage similar 
crimes now. With Yasuo Kato's death, 
that prediction may have been trag­
ically fulfilled. 
Mr. President, I believe that hate 
crimes are increasing due to the uncer­
tainty and fear many people have con­
cerning our economy. In this climate, 
Japan bashing becomes extremely 
tempting to many who aspire to leader­
ship in this country. As the U.S. Com­
mission on Civil Rights concluded, in a 
report issued just last week, political 
leaders have done little to diffuse esca­
lating racial tensions, and some politi­
cal candidates have even exacerbated 
racial tensions by using racial rhetoric 
in their campaigns. Politicians exploit 
our economic fears by pointing the fin­
ger at people who can be easily distin­
guished because they look different and 
speak a different language than most 
Americans. Business leaders take ad- . 
vantage of these fears by blaming oth­
ers for our problems. This is racial 
scape-goating of the worst kind. It is 
coming from Democrats and Repub­
licans; from those who are considered 
liberal and those who are considered 
conservative. In this atmosphere, ra­
cial violence can almost be expected. 
And Asian-Americans will bear the 
brunt of the resentment that we cre­
ate. 
How many even remember the name 
or position of the Japanese Govern­
ment official who criticized American 
workers? His remarks were ill-advised, 
but they do not justify making an en­
tire race responsible for maligning 
Americans. When a British company 
bought Holiday Inn, "America's Inn­
keeper", did we worry that America 
was being bought · up by the British? 
British investments in the United 
States continue to be far greater than 
Japanese investments. When Canadian 
Robert Campeau drove Bloomingdale's 
into bankruptcy, did we complain 
about those "sneaky foreigners" from 
the North? No; but somehow, when the 
blame is pointed at someone of a dif­
ferent color, it is all too easy to gener­
alize and create resentment against the 
entire race. That is what is happening 
with Asians, and we must do our best 
to bring it to a halt. 
Already, Japanese-American commu­
nity centers have been attacked and 
vandalized. Asian-American commu­
nity leaders say that the general hos­
tility toward Asians is the worst that 
it has been in decades. People have 
been spit on in the streets, and hurtful 
epithets yelled across the street, over 
the phone, and into answering ma­
chines. And in Los Angeles, Japanese­
American Girl Scouts selling their 
cookies outside a supermarket were re­
jected by a man who told them: "I only 
buy from American girls." 
Racial scape-goating only increases 
resentment and fear. It brings out the 
worst in all of us. Mr. President, this 
problem is not going to go away. Japan 
is going to remain our economic com­
petitor for many years to come. We 
must learn to deal with Japan not as 
one people against another people, but 
as one country's government dealing 
with another country's government. 
When Yasuo Kato died, all of America 
may have been victimized. No one in 
America should have to fear harm sim­
ply because of his race or national ori­
gin. If we are not more careful with 
what we say, the United States will be­
come not a kinder, gentler place, but a 
more frightening and more dangerous 
one.• 
THE lOOTH ANNIVERSARY OF ST. 
ADALBERT'S CHURCH 
• Mr. D'AMATO. Mr. President, it is 
with great pleasure that I announce to 
you the lOOth anniversary of St. 
Adalbert's Parish, in Queens County, 
NY. 
St. Adalbert's was founded as a par­
ish in November 1892 by a small group 
of Polish immigrants seeking the 
"American dream." The reason for the 
founding of this parish, at least at the 
beginning, was to respond to the needs 
of the Polish-speaking people of Elm­
hurst, Maspeth, and the surrounding 
areas. In 1896, the Conventional Fran­
ciscan Friars were asked by the bishop 
to administer the parish and have been 
doing so ever since. 
Today St. Adalbert's parish is a veri­
table melting pot of culture, ethnic di­
versity, and deep-rooted Catholic be­
liefs in God and country. St. Adalbert's 
ministers to a very changing neighbor­
hood of Polish, Irish, Italian, Korean, 
Filipino, and other Asian extractions. 
St. Adalbert's will be celebrating 
their centenary for the whole year of 
1992. The celebration will culminate in 
a special ceremony held for the parish­
communi ty on Sunday, November 15, 
1992, to note the importance of this an­
niversary to the people of Queens. 
It is because of the commitment of 
the Franciscan Friars and of each 
member of the congregation that the 
warm glow of God's love has been wel­
comed to the city of Elmhurst. Church­
es, in serving the needs of our commu­
nities, protecting family values, and 
sharing the message of the Lord, pro­
vide each of us with a foundation of 
strength and spirit in these trying 
times. As a U.S. Senator, I commend 
the entire congregation for their dedi­
cation to the goals and aspirations of 
St. Adalbert's Parish. 
I salute St. Adalbert's Roman Catho­
lic Church, indeed the entire parish, for 
their many years of success in service 
to their community. Congratulations 
on your 100 years and I wish you many 
more years of continued success and 
prosperity.• 
BUILDING A COMPETITIVE U.S. 
AUTO INDUSTRY 
• Mr. BAUCUS. Mr. President, a GM 
CEO once said, "what's good for GM is 
good for America." If what is bad for 
GM is bad for America, our country is 
hurting. 
Last week, GM announced the clos­
ing of 12 factories, the first step of a 
plan that will leave 74,000 American 
autoworkers unemployed. It is esti­
mated that GM's 1991 North American 
auto operations lost $1 million an hour. 
Ford and Chrysler also suffered 
record losses. 
The American automobile industry is 
emblematic of a broader crisis in our 
Nation: In sector after sector, we are 
losing our competitive edge. 
AMERICA'S COMPETITIVE DECLINE 
In the fifties and sixties, American­
made automobiles, steel, and elec­
tronic products set the standard for the 
rest of the world. But by the early 
eighties, those standards were set by 
German cars, Korean steel, and Japa­
nese electronics products. 
But instead of improving quality, 
many industries sought protection 
from imports. For the most part, the 
import protection the Government 
handed out to industries such as tex­
tiles, steel, machine tools, and autos, 
only raised the prices paid by consum­
ers and allowed the executives of un­
competitive industries to line their 
pockets. 
When the protection expired, the in­
dustries were no more competitive and 
they only demanded more protection at 
consumer expense. 
But the burden of improving U.S. 
competitiveness should not fall en­
tirely on industry. The Government 
must also find a better way to do its 
job. 
THE HARLEY DAVIDSON EXPERIENCE 
I think we can. And the experience of 
Harley Davidson proves import relief 

--- PDF PAGE 80 ---
4570 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
can promote competitiveness and not 
reward laziness. Harley's motorcycles 
had been famous worldwide . The com­
pany had learned how to make a lot of 
bikes, but by the seventies they had 
forgotten how to make them the best. 
Harley took two major steps to re­
verse its misfortunes. First, it sought 
import protection, and second, it fo­
cused on quality control and employee 
training. 
You know the rest. Harley got import 
relief in the form of higher tariffs. It 
used the breathing room the tariffs 
provided to overhaul its operation. It 
revamped its management, and started 
building motorcycles people wanted 
again, motorcycles people trusted 
again. And Harley Davidson actually 
ended up urging the Government to end 
import protection ahead of schedule. 
We have learned enough to know that 
industry requests will come and that 
some will be politically impossible to 
resist. But we can turn necessity into 
virtue by requiring competitive im­
provements in return for import relief. 
Given budget constraints, conditioned 
import relief is one of the few tools the 
U.S. Government can use to promote 
competitiveness. 
We must keep in mind that when an 
industry comes to the Government 
asking for protection, it is really ask­
ing for billions of dollars out of con­
sumers pockets. 
In the future, if a U.S. industry re­
quests import protection, we must de­
mand that the industry invest in im­
proving its competitiveness in ex­
change. If the industry is not willing to 
make that investment, the request for 
protection should be denied. 
THE AUTO EXAMPLE 
The American industry that is now 
most actively seeking protection is the 
auto industry. Hit by the double wham­
my of the recession and Japanese com­
petition, Detroit is reeling. 
The auto industry is an important 
part of our economy. According to re­
cent estimates, the auto industry is re­
sponsible for 4.5 percent of U.S. GNP 
and more than 2 million American jobs. 
The impact of the auto industry 
stretches beyond Detroit. The Amer­
ican auto industry supports industries 
ranging from electronics to steel. 
But, as we all know, the auto indus­
try has been experiencing competitive 
problems. The Japanese share of the 
U.S. auto market has steadily risen 
since the 1960's. Today, if the sales to 
U.S. rental car fleets are excluded, the 
Big Three hold only about a 60-percent 
share of the U.S. auto market. 
And-although they have succeeded 
in selling cars in Europe and around 
the world-the Big Three have not been 
able to crack the Japanese market in 
return. 
Part of the fault is their own. If the 
Big Three want to sell cars in Japan, 
they will have to work at it and build 
cars tailored to Japanese consumers. 
But even when we have products Japa­
nese consumers want to buy, like the 
Jeep Cherokee, an array of Japanese 
nontariff barriers has kept United 
States automakers from making the 
sale. 
In short, the playing field is still not 
level. The American auto industry is 
certainly not a basket case. On a level 
playing field, it is beginning to show 
some real competitive muscle. 
Perhaps, with a few years of import 
protection, the Big Three could once 
again set the standard for the world to 
meet and save millions of American 
jobs in the process. 
A NEW PLAN FOR AUTOS 
Toward that end, I have unveiled a 
plan-which I intend to introduce as 
legislation-to improve the competi­
tiveness of the American auto indus­
try. 
The proposal is built around the sim­
ple concept of short-term import relief 
in return for a commitment to build a 
more competitive industry. 
First, my proposal establishes a 
standstill on Japan's current United 
States sales level. It would limit Ja­
pan's share of the United States vehi­
cle market to the current level of im­
ports from Japan, approximately 2 mil­
lion units, plus the current level of 
Japanese transplant production. That 
means roughly 3.6 million units annu­
ally. Transplant autos with 70 percent 
or greater local content won't be 
counted against the limit. 
These limits would be reviewed every 
2 years and would be in place for no 
more than '7 years. 
But these years should be used as a 
chance to catch up with the competi­
tion, and not some loophole for contin­
ued business-as-used-to-be. My pro­
posal, in return for import protection, 
requires that the Big Three truly make 
quality Job 1 throughout the industry. 
I will demand that the auto industry 
demonstrate continued increases in 
production efficiency, product quality, 
and customer service-the criteria set 
by the Commerce Department for 
awarding the Malcolm Baldrige Na­
tional Quality Award. The emphasis 
will be on results-building better cars. 
Every 2 years, the International 
Trade Commission will evaluate the 
auto industry against these standards. 
If quality isn't steadily increasing, the 
protection will be terminated. 
In order to meet these tough stand­
ards and build better cars, the auto in­
dustry must continue to reinvest in 
their production facilities, worker 
training, and research and develop­
ment. But the focus will be on results, 
not on micromanaging the auto indus­
try. The Big Three themselves will 
make the specific investment deci­
sions. 
Further, if the Big Three want tem­
porary import relief, they will have to 
scale executive compensation to a level 
more in line with industrial reality 
than with major league baseball. Auto 
executives cannot expect to collect ob­
scene salaries while they lay off U.S. 
autoworkers. 
These are realistic measures. They 
are not mandatory. If the American 
auto industry believes it can turn itself 
around without further import re­
straints, that is fine. More power to 
them. But if import restraints are to be 
imposed, major continuing improve­
ment is the price. 
CONCLUSION 
No one should doubt the talent or te­
nacity of the United States. Thirty 
years ago, JOIIN GLENN became the first 
American to orbit the Earth. And less 
than a decade later, it was an Amer­
ican astronaut, not a Soviet cosmo­
naut, who took the first walk on the 
Moon. America won the technology 
race. 
And we can win the economic race. 
We can bring the determination we 
brought to the space race to the chal­
lenge of building a competitive econ­
omy. 
We do not have to beat our chests or 
raise our voices. We just have to do the 
job, and do it better than we ever have 
before. 
And we have to do it right now. 
And if U.S. industries come looking 
for a free ride at c·onsumers expense, I 
will stand in their way. We cannot af­
ford any more free rides for the auto 
industry, the steel industry, or anyone 
else. 
From now on, the price for Govern­
ment protection has got to be building 
a more competitive industry. Working 
together, Government and industry can 
build a more competitive America.• 
OUTSTANDING HIGH SCHOOL 
SENIORS 1992 
• Mr. D'AMATO. Mr. President, today I 
rise to pay tribute to the outstanding 
academic performances of Kimberly 
Hamlin and Rebecca Gleason. Each has 
been selected 1992 Shell Century Three 
Leaders which recognizes America's 
best and brightest student leaders. 
In addition to her classroom achieve­
ments at West Genesee High School in 
Camm us, Miss Hamlin has displayed 
leadership in a range of activities. She 
is president of the student council and 
cocaptain of the varsity tennis team. 
She is also a member of Students 
Against Driving Drunk, the ski club, 
the school orchestra, and is an editor 
of the school newspaper. She is a Na­
tional Merit scholar. 
In her community, Hamlin has volun­
teered for St. Camillus and the Max­
well Memorial Library, and is active in 
her church youth group. 
"To * * * help ease racial and gender 
strife it is imperative that we instill in 
our children an appreciation for all cul­
tures and a thirst for unbiased knowl­
edge. Law makers and leaders in soci­
ety should encourage and enforce this 

--- PDF PAGE 81 ---
March 5, 1992 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE 4571 
approach to learning," wrote Hamlin in 
her projection for innovative leader­
ship. 
Miss Gleason also excels beyond the 
classroom at Cohoes High School in Co­
hoes. She participates in numerous 
academic and athletic organizations. 
She is editor of the yearbook, president 
of the Spanish club, and was most valu­
able player on the varsity basketball 
team her junior year. 
In her community, Gleason is a mem­
ber of Explorers Post 647 and partici­
pates on a substance abuse task force. 
She is active in her church youth 
group . 
"The American attitude needs to 
make academic excellence a priority. 
Children learn from their surroundings. 
We must stop giving them pro athletes 
to admire and give them teachers to re­
spect," wrote Gleason in her projection 
for innovative leadership. 
As corecipients of a $1,500 college 
scholarship, Miss Hamlin and Miss 
Gleason win an all-expense-paid trip to 
Shell Century Three Leaders national 
conference in colonial Williamsburg, 
VA, March 21-25. Along with the other 
national scholarship winners, they will 
analyze and offer solutions to issues 
confronting America in the next cen­
tury. They will also compete for a 
$10,000 college scholarship. 
I ask that my colleagues join me in 
congratulating Kimberly and Rebecca 
for their accomplishments and with 
them the best of luck as future leaders 
of America.• 
ORDERS FOR FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 
AND TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 1992 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President , I ask 
unanimous consent that when the Sen­
ate completes its business today, it 
stand in recess until 11 a.m. on Friday, 
March 6; that on Friday, the Senate 
meet in pro forma session only; that at 
the close of the pro forma session, the 
Senate stand in recess until 9:30 a.m. 
on Tuesday, March 10; that following 
the prayer, the Journal of proceedings 
be approved to date; that following the 
time for the two leaders, there be a pe­
riod for morning business not to extend 
beyond 10 a.m., with Senators per­
mitted to speak therein for up to 5 
minutes each and with Senator HAT­
FIELD recognized for up to 5 minutes; 
that at 10 a.m. on Tuesday, the Senate 
proceed to the consideration of Cal­
endar No. 303, S. 792, a bill to reauthor­
ize the Indoor Radon Abatement Act of 
1988, and that the bill be considered 
under the following limitations: that 
the only amendments in order, other 
than the committee-reported sub­
stitute, be the following, that they be 
first-degree amendments except where 
noted and considered under the time 
limits specified: 
A Burdick technical amendment, 5 
minutes; 
A Smith amendment regarding 
radon, 10 minutes; 
A Wallop amendment regarding pub­
lic health effects and a Wallop amend­
ment regarding radon in public schools; 
that the two Wallop amendments be 
subject to relevant second-degree 
amendments; that there be 30 minutes 
for debate on the bill and committee 
substitute , inclusive; that the time be 
equally divided and controlled in the 
usual form. 
I further ask unanimous consent that 
on Tuesday, the Senate stand in recess 
from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. in order 
to accommodate the respective party 
conferences; that upon disposition of S. 
792, or no later than 3 p.m., and with­
out intervening action or debate, the 
Senate proceed to the consideration of 
H.R. 4210, a bill to provide tax relief for 
American families; further, that no 
call for the regular order displace H.R. 
4210. 
I further ask unanimous consent that 
immediately following disposition of 
H.R. 4210, without any intervening ac­
tion or debate, the Senate proceed to 
vote on the motion to invoke cloture 
on the conference report on H.R. 3371, 
the Omnibus Crime Control Act; and 
that, if cloture is not invoked, the con­
ference report be displaced; following 
the granting of this request I shall send 
the cloture motion to the desk. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
The text of the agreement is as fol­
lows: 
Ordered , That at 10:00 a.m. on Tuesday, 
March 10, 1992, the Senate proceed to the 
consideration of S. 792, a bill to reauthorize 
the Indoor Radon Abatement Act of 1988, 
with the only amendments in order , other 
than the committee-reported substitute, to 
be the following, that they be first degree 
amendments, except where noted, and con­
sidered under the time limitations specified: 
Burdick, technical amendment, 5 minutes; 
Smith, amendment regarding radon, 10 
minutes; 
Wallop, amendment regarding Public 
Health effects; and 
Wallop, amendment regarding radon in 
public schools. 
Ordered further , That the 2 Wallop amend­
ments be subject to relevant second degree 
amendments. 
Ordered further, That there be 30 minutes 
for debate on the bill and committee sub­
stitute, inclusive, with the time to be equal­
ly divided and controlled in the usual form. 
Ordered further, That upon disposition of S. 
792, or no later than 3:00 p.m. on Tuesday, 
March 10, 1992, and without intervening ac­
tion or debate, the Senate proceed to the 
consideration of H.R. 4210, a bill to provide 
tax relief for American families. 
Ordered further, That on Tuesday, March 
10, 1992, the consideration of H.R. 4210 be for 
debate only, with no amendments or votes 
thereon in order. 
Ordered further, That at 10:00 a.m. on 
Wednesday, March 11, 1992, when the Senate 
resumes consideration of H.R. 4210, the Sen­
ator from Arkansas (Mr. Pryor) be recog­
nized to offer an amendment relative to pre­
scription drugs. 
Ordered further, That no call for the regu­
lar order displace H.R. 4210. 
Ordered further, That immediately follow­
ing disposition of H.R. 4210, and without any 
intervening action or debate, the Senate pro­
ceed to vote on the motion to invoke cloture 
on the conference report on H.R. 3371, the 
Omnibus Crime Control Act, and if cloture is 
not invoked, the conference report be dis­
placed. 
ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY, MARCH 
11, 1992 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I ask 
unanimous consent that when the Sen­
ate completes its business on Tuesday, 
it stand in recess until 9:30 a.m. on 
Wednesday, March 11; that following 
the prayer, the Journal of proceedings 
be deemed approved to date; that fol­
lowing the time for the two leaders 
there be a period for morning business 
not to extend beyond 10 a.m., with Sen­
ators permitted to speak therein for up 
to 5 minutes each, with Senator SIMP­
SON, or his designee, recognized for up 
to 5 minutes; that at 10 a.m., the Sen­
ate resume consideration of H.R. 4210, 
and that Senator PRYOR be recognized 
to offer an amendment relative to pre­
scription drugs. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without . 
objection, it is so ordered . 
PROGRAM 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President and 
Members of the Senate, I would like 
now to review the effects of the agree­
ment which has just been reached, and 
in the process advise Senators of the 
schedule of the next several days so 
that Senators can plan accordingly. 
There will be only a pro forma ses­
sion of the Senate tomorrow with no 
rollcall votes. The Senate will not be in 
session on Monday. 
On Tuesday, at 10 a.m., the Senate 
will take up the radon bill under an 
agreement limiting the number of 
amendments to four, two of which have 
already been agreed to, and I under­
stand that of the remaining two, one is 
likely to be agreed to. 
Although there is no time limitation 
on those amendments, it is my hope 
and expectation that the Senate will 
complete action on that measure prior 
to the recess of the Senate for the 
party conferences at 12:30 on Tuesday 
and that the votes-and it now appears 
there will be two votes, one on an 
amendment and one on final passage, 
possibly three if a second-degree 
amendment is offered-will occur after 
the party caucuses. 
So Senators should be aware that 
there is the likelihood of votes occur­
ring on Tuesday, immediately after the 
party caucuses, with respect to the 
radon bill. 
As soon as that bill is disposed of, or 
in any event no later than 3 p.m., the 
Senate will turn to the tax bill, H.R. 
4210, as recently reported by the Senate 
Finance Committee. 
There will be debate only on that bill 
on Tuesday. There will be no votes on 

--- PDF PAGE 82 ---
4572 CONGRESSIONAL RECORD-SENATE March 5, 1992 
the tax bill and no amendments will be 
offered on that day. 
Several Senators have requested the 
opportunity to speak on the tax bill. 
They should be prepared to do so from 
3 p.m. on Tuesday throughout that day. 
At 10 a.m. on Wednesday, the Senate 
will return to consideration of the tax 
bill, and amendments will then be in 
order, and under the agreement Sen­
ator PRYOR will be recognized to offer 
his amendment. · 
We anticipate that there will con­
tinue to be debate and votes on 
Wednesday and Thursday and, if nec­
essary, on Friday to complete action 
on the tax bill. 
Senators should be prepared for ses­
sions late into the evening, and for as 
long as it takes to finish the tax bill 
next week. It is our intention that we 
will complete action on the tax bill 
next week whatever that takes in 
terms of the Senate's being in session, 
late in the evening, Friday if nec­
essary, and Friday evening if nec­
essary. 
When we complete action on the tax 
bill, immediately thereafter and with­
out any intervening action or debate, 
we will then have a cloture vote on the 
conference report on the Omnibus 
Crime Control Act which has been the 
subject of debate in the Senate for the 
past 2 days. 
That will complete the action that is 
contemplated pursuant to this agree­
ment. 
Mr. President, I thank the distin­
guished Republican leader for his co­
operation in working out this agree­
ment. And I now yield to invite any 
comments he may wish to make on the 
matter. 
Mr. DOLE. As I understand, following 
action on the conference report, if clo­
ture is not invoked, then we would be 
back on the Corporation for Public 
Broadcasting bill. 
Mr. MITCHELL. That is correct, un­
less for some reason the radon bill is 
not completed prior to 3 p.m. on Tues­
day, then we would be back to finish 
radon, and then go to the Corporation 
for Public Broadcasting bill. 
Mr. DOLE. Second, I know Senator 
·PRYOR, according to the agreement, 
will lay down the first amendment on 
Wednesday morning. It may be that 
the Senator from Oregon [Mr. PACK­
WOOD] may want to make a statement. 
I am certain he can work that out with 
Senator PRYOR. 
Mr. MITCHELL. I am certain there 
will be no problem. Senator BENTSEN 
will manage the bill. Senator PRYOR 
will be debating his amendment. And I 
feel certain, although I have not dis­
cussed this with either of them, that 
they will be prepared to accommodate 
Senator PACKWOOD in that regard. 
Mr. DOLE. Senator PACKWOOD will be 
managing the bill on this side. So we 
are ready to go. 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, I 
again thank my colleague. 
Senators, I repeat so there can be no 
misunderstanding about this, should be 
prepared for late night sessions every 
night next week from Tuesday on, and 
to stay in session for as long as it takes 
to complete action on the tax bill, and 
have the cloture vote on the crime con­
ference report. 
MODIFICATION TO THE UNANIMOUS-CONSENT 
AGREEMENT 
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con­
sent that the agreement be modified to 
provide within the agreement that the 
consideration of the tax bill on Tues­
day be for debate only, that no amend­
ments be in order at that time, and 
that no votes occur with respect to the 
tax bill. 
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without 
objection, it is so ordered. 
RECESS UNTIL TOMORROW AT 11 
A.M. 
Mr. MITCHELL. Mr. President, if 
there is no further business to come be­
fore the Senate today, I now ask unani­
mous consent that the Senate stand in 
recess as previously ordered. 
There been no objection, the Senate , 
at 7:19 p.m., recessed until tomorrow, 
Friday, March 6, 1992, at 11 a.m. 