From: "Jeffrey E." <jeevacation@grnail.com> 
To: aziza alahmadi < la> 
Subject: 
Date: Mon, 16 Oct 2017 09:59:40 +0000 
I begin my letter with the greetings of peace as instructed by the Noble Prophet 
Mohammed. 
November 7 will mark one year since you and I met and laughed . Many things have 
changed since, and many, have not. You became crown prince and I remained a friend 
The economics of the kingdom have not done as well. At our meeting I suggested 
reviewing the actual goals of the kingdom and then reaching into a sphisticated tool box to 
offer solutions. A rethinking of the Aramco transaction was only a part of what I believe 
was needed. I recognized that the forces and momentum of aligned personalities , wall 
street , your advisors and third parties would put up roadblocks to new thinking. You have 
been a visionary with 2030 , but it takes NEW thinking to guide the money piece of the 
plan. Everything else in your vision relies on new views but the aramco transaction is 
stuck in the past. 
Having world wide shareholders , with rights to audit everything and everyone is , silly. 
Sorry for the bluntness.. You have been treated as if you are only a large company. you are 
not . you are a soverign with unique rights. You should amend the laws to protect yourself 
from JASTA. you are playing into the hands of the wall street demons. you need cash, you 
have resources . getting the money from third parties should be structured as debt. 
options swaps ( all new financial instruments at your disposal ). having shares that 
flucturate on a daily basis , leads to many bad consequences. The value of your entire 
holding could be volatile. based on a small percentage of stock trading. IT IS WRONG!! 
and dangerous.. 
For example , you could sell china an option to buy an interest for 100 billion dollars. . 
There are few commissions so many wall street people will not approve. This option 
would give you what you need , it would create a valuation for the whole , ( if that is 
important ). It will keep you safe from predators. In addition you should form a new 
digital currency - the first to be wholly shariar compliant. The muslim world will rejoice 
and its uses will be for the future. 
I do not want any money from you or the kingdom. I believe in what you are trying to 
do. I am happy to come visit , if you will devote the time . You invited me on your boat, but 
I dont like boats.:) your time is precious , i realize but the economy is the blood of your 
vision. 
please note 
The information contained in this communication is 
confidential, may be attorney -client privileged, may 
constitute inside information, and is intended only for 
the use of the addressee. It is the property of 
EFTA00988621

JEE 
Unauthorized use, disclosure or copying of this 
communication or any part thereof is strictly prohibited 
and may be unlawful. If you have received this 
communication in error, please notify us immediately by 
return e-mail or by e-mail to jeevacation@gmail.com, and 
destroy this communication and all copies thereof, 
including all attachments. copyright -all rights reserved 
EFTA00988622