Crypto Currency 
Partners 
INVESTOR UPDATE
CRYPTO CURRENCY PARTNERS, L.P. 
OCTOBER 2014 
EFTA00621239

)Crypto Currency 
Partners 
Dear CCP Investors, 
The Bitcoin ecosystem is one the most exciting investment landscapes that we have seen in 
our 20 years as venture capitalists and hedge fund managers. Bitcoin is better, faster, cheaper, 
programmable money. Bitcoin is simultaneously a digital currency, a computer protocol, a financial 
transaction processing network, a store of value, and a self-protecting global peer-to-peer network. 
For the first time in human history, Bitcoin enables the near instantaneous and irreversible 
utilization of a payment technology (i.e. cash, Visa or Gold) that doesn't require an incumbent 
financial intermediary such as a bank or a sovereign nation. And it is virtually free. We could send 
you 1/100 of a penny (1.7 bits) or $10 million dollars (17,670 Bitcoins) using a smart phone, or a 
paper-based physical "wallet" containing bitcoins. Hedge fund managers can use crypto currencies 
like Bitcoin to store value in a liquid, globally available asset that is negatively correlated to 
traditional financial assets. Yet Bitcoin also enables a migrant farm worker in California to send 
money back to his family in Mexico and save the 5-10% charged by traditional cash remittance 
companies like Western Union. Bitcoin allows for cash to be sent world-wide without the high fixed 
costs associated with credit card transactions. We have all seen the hand written-signs at the 
checkout register that say "minimum credit card purchase $5." This is because merchants have to 
share 2-2.5% of credit card purchases with Visa/MasterCard/American Express. Merchants 
accepting Bitcoin get to keep that 2.-2.5%. The fixed costs of the Bitcoin ecosystem are orders of 
magnitude cheaper than legacy payment networks. Extrapolating the inherent low costs of the 
Bitcoin network on a global basis means that 3 billion of the world's population who are currently 
"unbanked" could become consumers of financial products and services. 
From a global macro perspective, Bitcoin is interesting because it is experiencing rapid user growth 
and is at the same time transnational and super-sovereign. Like the Internet in the mid-1990s. Gold 
is also super-sovereign, but it is hard to move physically, and you can't split it and spend it online for 
goods and services like you can with Bitcoin. Bitcoin can be thought of as a start-up technology 
company that is competing in the world of global financial institutions and governments. The old 
adage that "necessity is the mother of invention" applies to Bitcoin. It was invented in the direct 
aftermath of the global financial crisis of 2008, which showed the world that financial institutions are 
dangerously interconnected, too big to fail, and over-leveraged. These same financial institutions are 
still largely unreformed and manage financial assets like stocks, bonds, and currencies. The prices 
of these financial assets have been massively supported, in a coordinated fashion, by sovereign 
nations and central banks. The debt and liquidity problems of the global banking system were 
EFTA00621240

"solved" with more debt and liquidity by central bankers. History tells us that currency devaluations 
and/or inflation will be the result of these policy decisions. A central tenant of our Bitcoin 
investment thesis is that Bitcoin is structurally designed to be anti-inflationary. Baked into the 
Bitcoin protocol, a "law of Bitcoin" if you will, is that there will only be 21 million bitcoins ever 
created by the system (there are approximately 13 million bitcoins in circulation as of August 2014). 
The core invention underpinning Bitcoin is a powerful idea and novel technology called The 
Blockchain. The Blockchain enables two parties to exchange value without knowing or necessarily 
trusting each other. This is similar to physically exchanging cash, except the two parties can be 
located anywhere in the world. The Blockchain technology has many applications and Bitcoin is just 
the first in the vertical industry of finance. To name a few beyond finance, the Blockchain could be 
used as an escrow service, for enabling smart contracts and tides, or to manage elections in emerging 
and/or unstable nation states. It could also be used as a decentralized certificate authority for 
identification and authorization, or to cheaply manage legal disputes. 
We see a massively attractive risk/reward profile for those companies that can leverage Blockchain 
technology to disrupt bloated legacy systems like financial services, legal services, and government. 
In the Bitcoin ecosystem, we like companies that are creating the financial infrastructure to connect 
crypto currencies like Bitcoin to the global capital markets. We see excellent investment 
opportunities in sub-sectors of Bitcoin like Blockchain based SaaS for enterprises, mobile apps, 
mining/pools, security, global remittance, gaming, and rest-of-world consumer financial products 
and services. 
Bitcoin is complex, hard to understand, and confusing. As a result, it is often misunderstood and 
frequently mis-reported... And therein lies the investment opportunity at this nascent stage in the 
development of this organically growing ecosystem. 
We created Crypto Currency Partners, LP (CCP) to bring the discipline of professional investors to 
the Wild West of crypto currencies, of which Bitcoin is our favorite and primary focus. The limited 
partners invited into the investment partnership are Bitcoin thought leaders, Bitcoin entrepreneurs, 
professional VC's personal accounts, hedge fund managers, and technology company operating 
executives. The start-up companies that receive capital from CCP are companies that are leaders in 
their respective Bitcoin sub-sectors. Our mission, as stewards of capital and Bitcoin venture 
capitalists, is to help CCP companies grow. We speak at Bitcoin conferences around the world and 
are constantly interacting with operating companies, start-ups, regulators, venture capital firms, and 
institutional investors. All of whom are learning and getting more exposed to Bitcoin. These are the 
early days. Stay tuned and strap in. 
EFTA00621241

Deal Flow 
We have seen tremendous deal flow throughout the year originating from our founding partners, 
managing partners and limited partners. Through our partners, we believe we have been able to take 
a look at nearly every Bitcoin investment opportunity possible, with a few high profile exceptions 
that pre-date the fund's inception. As interest in the Bitcoin ecosystem from traditional top tier 
venture capitalists grows, it may become more difficult to maintain access to all deals. However, we 
are continuing to cultivate relationships with all thought leaders and Bitcoin-interested venture firms. 
Our goal is to be viewed as a sector specific venture fund, that generalist venture funds will bring 
into their deals for due diligence, industry expertise, sales leads, and domain expertise. 
Our Kieretsu 
We have been working hard to cultivate the inter-connected relationships of our portfolio 
companies. Many of them are utilizing the products or services of other CCP companies. We 
encourage our companies to work together and to enact best business practices of the Bitcoin 
ecosystem. This network of companies supporting each other, and enabling best-of-breed 
specialization, has been very positive for many of our investments. It boosts early revenues and 
time-to-market. 
Nothing frustrates us more than to see a handful of companies waste time and resources, all trying 
to recreate the same service that is not core to their business. We are very early in the rise of crypto 
currencies, and speed to market and specialization within targeted markets is paramount to success. 
The Bitcoin ecosystem is also evolving in an accelerated fashion, thereby magnifying mistakes by 
start-up companies in the sector. We hope to guide our companies and help them grow by 
providing capital, assisting them with hiring, bringing customer leads, offering strategic advice, and 
access to the CCP network of companies and people. 
Capital Calls 
The stated goal of this fund was to make roughly 20 investments in the Bitcoin ecosystem in 2014. 
We believe that CCP is the only fund in the world that accepts capital calls in either fiat currency or 
Bitcoin and that can also fund companies in fiat or Bitcoin. 
We have been very active investing in the first nine months of the year, investing the majority of the 
capital in 27 Bitcoin start-ups. We will not be making any additional investments from the fund. 
How You Can Help 
We will continue to leverage the collective network of the general partners, limited partners and 
CCP operating company executives to help all of our companies grow and thrive. 
EFTA00621242

A quarter of the portfolio is well capitalized with financing for at least the next year of operations. 
Another quarter of the portfolio will be raising capital in early to mid-2015. The remaining 50% of 
portfolio companies will be raising capital in Q4 2014. In the near term, much of our focus will be 
on assisting these companies with capital needs. As CCP companies seek funding, we may be 
reaching out to the limited partners of the fund for specific introductions to venture capital firms if 
we don't have existing relationships. We endeavor to keep our limited partners informed of ongoing 
capital raises, and if you believe you can be helpful, please speak up. Also, many of our CCP 
companies' financings will have opportunities for direct co-investments by CCP limited partners. If 
this is something you are interested in, please let us know. 
We welcome any comments or feedback, 
Brad Stephens 
Bart Stephens 
Brock Pierce 
EFTA00621243

Portfolio Companies 
Authy - Two-factor authentication platform 
Co-investors: Y Combinator 
Bex.io — White label Bitcoin exchange as a service 
Co-investors: Plug and Play, BoostVC 
BitAccess— Bitcoin Teller Machine 
Co-investors: Y Combinator, Pantera Capital 
BitFury - World's largest Bitcoin miner 
Co-investors: Binary Financial, Georgian Co-Investment Fund 
BitGo - Enterprise focused, multi-signature secure wallet platform 
Co-investors: Redpoint, Radar Partners, Founders Fund 
BitPesa — Money Remittance to Africa 
Co-investors: Pantera 
Blade Financial Oka PayPay)— White-label Bitcoin debit card 
Co-investors: Angels 
BlockCypher — Powering Blockchains in the Cloud 
Co-investors: Foundation Capital, Tim Draper 
BlockStream — Enabling the creation of Side-chains 
Co-investors: Reid Hoffman, Khosla Ventures, Ribbit Capital 
BTC China - Leading Chinese Exchange, Mobile Apps and Payments 
Co-investors: Lightspeed Venture Partners 
Chain.com - Enterprise Bitcoin Infrastructure 
Co-investors: Khosla Ventures, RRE Ventures, SV Angel, 500 Startups 
ChangeCoin - Platform for receiving and sending online tips 
Co-investors: Angellist 
Coinsetter — Institutional grade, low latency Bitcoin exchange and ECN 
Co-investors: Second Market, Tribeca Venture Fund 
Expresscoin — A simple and safe way for consumers to buy Bitcoin 
Co-investors: Bitcoin Shop (OTC: NTCS), Angels 
FreshPay — Enabling ease of payments for individuals 
EFTA00621244

Co-investors: Future Perfect Ventures, Angels 
Gem (fka BitVault) — Bank-grade security for developer apps 
Co-investors: Amplify.LA, RRE, First Round Capital 
GoCoin - Multi-currency payment gateway for merchants 
Co-investors: Bitcoin Shop (OTC: NTCS), Angels 
Koinify - Crypto meets crowdfunding 
Co-investors: IDG Capital Partners, zPark Venture, Danhua Capital 
Kraken — European crypto currency exchange 
Co-investors: Hummingbird Ventures, SecondMarket 
LedgerX - Self-clearing Bitcoin derivatives platform 
Co-investors: Lightspeed Venture Partners, SV Angel, Google Ventures 
Noble Markets- Financial services focused crypto-exchange 
Co-investors: Clearstone Venture Partners, Tally Capital 
PeerNova — Crypto infrastructure as a Service and Cloud-hashing 
Co-investors: Mosaik Partners, Pierre Lamond, Ashar Aziz 
SFOX - Algorithmic Bitcoin exchange 
Co-investors: Y Combinator, Khosla Ventures, Tech Accelerator 
SnapCard — Spend your Bitcoin on any web site 
Co-investors: Boost.VC 
Texas Bitcoin Conference — Industry trade show 
Co-investors: Angels 
Xapo — Bitcoin focused consumer financial services 
Co-investors: Pantera, Ribbit, Greylock, Benchmark, Fortress 
ZenBox - Bitcoin ATM operator 
Co-investors: Angels 
ZipZap — global digital currency payment network 
Co-investors: 500 Startups, Triple Point Capital, Blumberg Capital 
EFTA00621245