From: "Al seckel" 
To: "Jeffrey Epstein" <jeevacation@grnail.com> 
Subject: Conference 
Date: Thu, 04 Nov 2010 03:59:22 +0000 
Jeff, 
Everyone is confirmed, booked, and all is arranged. Cecil and Allison were extremely easy and 
professional to work with, and their service was exemplary. 
The list of the confirmed attendees are as follows: 
Al Seckel 
Murray Gell-Mann 
Christof Koch 
Frances Arnold 
Gerald Sussman 
Len Mlodnow 
Catherine Mohr 
Ron Reisman 
Brock Pierce 
Baron Reichart Von Wolfshield 
Dan Dubno 
Paul Kirkaas 
Pablos Holman 
Please note that I purposely put together individuals I know extremely well, and who are highly 
articulate, passionate, opinionated, informed, insightful, successful, and who are FUN!!!! People that 
you would personally enjoy. Not just a bunch of dry ivory tower academics. Every single person 
here can hold and lead a conversation that is non-trivial and meaningful. I also wanted the group to 
be eclectic, and not just single focused on theoretical physics or some other topic, both cross-
disciplinary, so one could get the most interesting new approaches and thoughts. This is an 
exceptional group. Truly. I also wanted to add some new people, who you are not familiar with, and 
who you would enjoy very much. I know that Pablos has met and spent a good deal of time at 
another gathering that I put together with Reichart Von Wolfshield and Paul Kirkaas, and said they 
were amazing. Murray went head-to-head with Paul Kirkaas at one of my parties, and didn't fair so 
well, and later when I asked Murray what he thought of Paul, he said, uncharacteristically, "he's very 
very smart. Very smart." Brock is one of the most interesting people i know, and is responsible for 
building up a multi-billion dollar virtual currency market in computer games and is involved in all 
sorts of stuff. recently, the feature story in WIRED. Catherine Mohr is also absolutely incredible and 
a super star. You can see her profiled on two of her TED talks. She is one of my closest friends. 
paul kirkaas is my oldest friend. 
EFTA00752383

Fun, fun, group. You will enjoy them and have a good stimulating time. And, that's what it was all 
about. ;-) 
cheers, 
me 
EFTA00752384